Is there any way to check whether a file is locked without using a try/catch block?  

Right now, the only way I know of is to just open the file and catch any System.IO.IOException.

What profilers have you used when working with .net programs, and which would you particularly recommend?
I'm writing a web page in ASP.NET. I have some JavaScript, and I have a submit button with a click event. 

Is it possible to call a method I created in ASP with JavaScript's click event?

I am writing an application that needs to bring window of an external app to the foreground, and not necessarily steal focus (there is a setting the user can toggle to steal/not steal focus).
What is the best way to go about this using the win32 API? I have tried SetForeground() but it always steals focus and does not consistenly work.
What is the best way to go about this? Any thoughts?
ASP.NET server-side controls postback to their own page.  This makes cases where you want to redirect a user to an external page, but need to post to that page for some reason (for authentication, for instance) a pain.

An HttpWebRequest works great if you don't want to redirect, and JavaScript is fine in some cases, but can get tricky if you really do need the server-side code to get the data together for the post.

So how do you both post to an external URL and redirect the user to the result from your ASP.NET codebehind code?

The following code works great in IE, but not in FF or Safari.  I can't for the life of me work out why.  The code is supposed to disable radio buttons if you select the "Disable 2 radio buttons" option.  It should enable the radio buttons if you select the "Enable both radio buttons" option.  These both work...

However, if you don't use your mouse to move between the 2 options ("Enable..." and "Disable...") then the radio buttons do not appear to be disabled or enabled correctly, until you click anywhere else on the page (not on the radio buttons themselves).

If anyone has time/is curious/feeling helpful, please paste the code below into an html page and load it up in a browser.  It works great in IE, but the problem manifests itself in FF (3 in my case) and Safari, all on Windows XP.



I can get Python to work with Postgresql but I cannot get it to work with MySQL. The main problem is that on the shared hosting account I have I do not have the ability to install things such as Django or PySQL, I generally fail when installing them on my computer so maybe it's good I can't install on the host.

I found bpgsql really good because it does not require an install, it's a single file that I can look at, read and then call the functions of. Does anybody know of something like this for MySQL?
For parsing player commands, I've most often used the split method to split a string by delimiters and then to then just figure out the rest by a series of ifs or switches. What are some different ways of parsing strings in Java?

When I try to print a Unicode string in a Windows console, I get a UnicodeEncodeError: 'charmap' codec can't encode character .... error.  I assume this is because the Windows console does not accept Unicode-only characters. What's the best way around this? Is there any way I can make Python automatically print a ? instead of failing in this situation?

Edit:  I'm using Python 2.5.



Note: @LasseV.Karlsen answer with the checkmark is sort of outdated (from 2008). Please use the solutions/answers/suggestions below with care!!

@JFSebastian answer is more relevant as of today (6 Jan 2016).

I need to send and receive data over serial connections (RS-232 and RS-422).

How do I set up and communicate with such a connection?  How do I figure out what the configuration settings (e.g. baud rate) should be and how do I set them?

In particular I am looking to do this in Java, C/C++, or one of the major Unix shells but I also have some interest in serial programming using Windows/Hyperterminal.
I tried to follow a couple of googled up tutorials on setting up mod_python, but failed every time. Do you have a good, step-by step, rock-solid howto?

My dev box is OS X, production - Centos.
Looking for books or other references that discuss actually "how" to write a code coverage tool in Java; some of the various techniques or tricks - source vs. byte code instrumentation. This is for a scripting language that generates java byte code under the hood.

Does it make sense, having all of the C#-managed-bliss, to go back to Petzold's Programming Windows and try to produce code w/ pure WinAPI?

What can be learn from it? Isn't it just too outdated to be useful?

I'm using a Dictionarystring, int where the int is a count of the key.

Now, I need to access the last-inserted Key inside the Dictionary, but I do not know the name of it. The obvious attempt:



does not work, because Dictionary.Keys does not implement a []-indexer.

I just wonder if there is any similar class? I thought about using a Stack, but that only stores a string. I could now create my own struct and then use a StackMyStruct, but I wonder if there is another alternative, essentially a Dictionary that implements an []-indexer on the Keys?

I'd like to use a LinqDataSource control on a page and limit the amount of records returned.  I know if I use code behind I could do something like this:



Does anyone know if something like this is possible with a LinqDataSource control?

[Update]

I'm going to use the LinqDataSource with the ListView control, not a GridView or Repeater.  The LinqDataSource wizard does not provide the ability to limit the number of records return.  The Advanced options only allow you to enabled deletes, inserts, and updates.

I am working on a project that requires the manipulation of enormous matrices, particularly pyramidal summation for a copula calculation.  

In short, I need to keep track of a relatively small number of values (usually a value of 1, and in rare cases more than 1) in a sea of zeros in the matrix (multidimensional array).  

A sparse array allows the user to store a small number of values, and assume all undefined records to be a preset value.  Since it is not physically possibly to store all values in memory (greater in number than the number of particles in the universe :p ), I need to store only the few non-zero elements. This could be several million entries, I currently work on a system that uses a binary search tree (b-tree) to store entries.  

Does anyone know of a better system?

EDIT: Speed is a huge priority.   

EDIT 2 : I like that solution.  How would I go about dynamically choosing the number of variables in the class at runtime?  [edit by MH: good question, updated in the answer]

I've been having issues getting the C sockets API to work properly in C++. Specifically, even though I'm including sys/socket.h, I'm still getting compile time errors telling me that AF_INET is not defined. Am I missing something obvious, or could this be related to the fact that I'm doing this coding on z/OS and my problems are much more complicated?



Update: Upon further investigation, I discovered that there is an #ifdef that I'm hitting. Apparently z/OS isn't happy unless I define which type of sockets I'm using with:



Now, I personally have no idea what this _OE_SOCKETS is actually for, so if any z/OS sockets programmers are out there (all 3 of you), perhaps you could give me a rundown on how this all works?

How can I find out which node in a tree list the context menu has been activated? For instance right-clicking a node and selecting an option from the menu. 

I can't use the TreeViews' SelectedNode property because the node is only been right-clicked and not selected.

OK. This is a bit of a vanity app, but I had a situation today at work where I was in a training class and the machine was set to lock every 10 minutes.  Well, if the trainers got excited about talking - as opposed to changing slides - the machine would lock up.

I'd like to write a teeny app that has nothing but a taskbar icon that does nothing but move the mouse by 1 pixel every 4 minutes.  

I can do that in 3 ways with Delphi (my strong language) but I'm moving to C# for work and I'd like to know the path of least resistance there.
Any suggestions?  Using visual studio in C#.

Are there any specific tools to use or methods to approach this?

Update:

Sorry, I should have been a little more specific. I am using ASP.Net 2.0 and was looking more for a tool like jUnit for Java. I took a look at NUnit and NUnitAsp and that looks very promising. And I didn't even know that Visual Studio Pro has a testing suite, so I'll look at all of these options (I've just started using Visual Studio/Asp.net/C# this summer).


  Possible Duplicate:
  Casting vs using the as keyword in the CLR  




What is actually the difference between these two casts?



Normally, they should both be explicit casts to the specified type?

I often have to sort a dictionary, consisting of keys  values, by value. For example, I have a hash of words and respective frequencies, that I want to order by frequency.

There is a SortedList which is good for a single value (say frequency), that I want to map it back to the word.

SortedDictionary orders by key, not value. Some resort to a custom class, but is there a cleaner way?

Why are unsigned integers not CLS compliant?

I am starting to think the type specification is just for performance and not for correctness.

I want to use a track-bar to change a form's opacity.

This is my code:



When I try to build it, I get this error:


  Cannot implicitly convert type 'decimal' to 'double'.


I tried making trans a double, but then the control doesn't work. This code has worked fine for me in VB.NET in the past. 

What's the simplest way to connect and query a database for a set of records in C#?

Is there a way to create a JButton with your own button graphic and not just with an image inside the button? 

If not, is there another way to create a custom button in java?

Attempting to insert an escape character into a table results in a warning. 

For example:



Produces the warning:



(Using PSQL 8.2)

Anyone know how to get around this?

I'm developing a Sharepoint application and use .NET AjaxControlToolkit library, we are adding a custom aspx page to the Sharepoint. Sharepoint 2007 run in quirks mode so I've made some modification to the AJAX library to make it behave like it normally should. The problem is, the other team already use AJAX library and it is a different version with mine. This cause conflict because there could be only one dll in the bin folder with the same name.

From what I know, .NET should be able to handle this situation easily. I've tried using strong name and GAC to solve it, but it still refer to the dll in the bin folder. If there is no AjaxControlToolkit.dll in the bin folder, the application will simply fail to load the assembly. 

If I use complete assembly information on my like this 



It gives me Compiler Error CS0433

Can someone help me on how to use multiple version of assembly in an application?
Is there anyway to configure a WCF service with a failover endpoint if the primary endpoint dies? Kind of like being able to specify a failover server in a SQL cluster.

Specifically I am using the TCP/IP binding for speed, but on the rare occurrence that the machine is not available I would like to redirect traffic to the failover server. Not too bothered about losing messages. I'd just prefer not to write the code to handle re-routing.

I need help finishing my custom built ajax [div] based dynamic dropdown. 

Basically, I have an [input] box which; onkeyup, runs an Ajax search which returns a bunch of results in divs and are drawn back in using innerHTML. These divs all have highlights onmouseover so, a typical successfull search yields the following structure (pardon the semicode):



It works.. beautifully! looks elegant and is way more complete than any regular dropdown (those results div bring in a lot of information).

However, I'm missing the most of important functions behind regular HTML elements, that is, I can't keyboard down or up between "options". How do I do this? I know javascript handles keyboard events but; I haven't been able to find a good guide on how to do this. (Of course, the follow up question to this will eventually end up being: can I use ENTER to trigger that onclick event?)

I have been trying to implement Win32's MessageBox using GTK. The app using SDL/OpenGL, so this isn't a GTK app. 

I handle the initialisation (gtk_init) sort of stuff inside the MessageBox function as follows:



Now, I am by no means an experienced GTK programmer, and I realise that I'm probably doing something(s) horribly wrong.

However, my problem is that the last dialog popped up with this function stays around until the process exits. Any ideas?

Is there an existing application or library in Java which will allow me to convert a CSV data file to XML file?  

The XML tags would be provided through possibly the first row containing column headings.

I use Firebug and the Mozilla JS console heavily, but every now and then I run into an IE-only JavaScript bug, which are really hard to locate (ex: error on line 724, when the source html only has 200 lines).

I would love to have a lightweight JS tool (a la firebug) for Internet Explorer, something I can install in seconds on a client's PC if I run into an error and then uninstall. Some Microsoft tools take some serious download and configuration time.

Any ideas?

What is the "purist" or "correct" way to access an object's properties from within an object method that is not a getter/setter method?

I know that from outside of the object you should use a getter/setter, but from within would you just do:

Java:



PHP:



or would you do:

Java:



PHP:



Forgive me if my Java is a little off, it's been a year since I programmed in Java...

EDIT:

It seems people are assuming I am talking about private or protected variables/properties only. When I learned OO I was taught to use getters/setters for every single property even if it was public (and actually I was told never to make any variable/property public). So, I may be starting off from a false assumption from the get go. It appears that people answering this question are maybe saying that you should have public properties and that those don't need getters and setters, which goes against what I was taught, and what I was talking about, although maybe that needs to be discussed as well. That's probably a good topic for a different question though...


What's the optimal level of concurrency that the C++ implementation of BerkeleyDB can reasonably support?
How many threads can I have hammering away at the DB before throughput starts to suffer because of resource contention?


I've read the manual and know how to set the number of locks, lockers, database page size, etc., but I'd just like some advice from someone who has real-world experience with BDB concurrency.

My application is pretty simple, I'll be doing gets and puts of records that are about 1KB each. No cursors, no deleting.

Let's say I have a DataTable with a Name column. I want to have a collection of the unique names ordered alphabetically. The following query ignores the order by clause.



Why does the orderby not get enforced?

So my company stores alot of data in a foxpro database and trying to get around the performance hit of touching it directly I was thinking of messaging anything that can be done asynchronously for a snappier user experience.  I started looking at ActiveMQ but don't know how well C# will hook with it.  Wanting to hear what all of you guys think.

edit : It is going to be a web application.  Anything touching this foxpro is kinda slow (probably because the person who set it up 10 years ago messed it all to hell, some of the table files are incredibly large).  We replicate the foxpro to sql nightly and most of our data reads are ok being a day old so we are focusing on the writes. plus the write affects a critical part of the user experience (purchasing), we store it in sql and then just message to have it put into foxpro when it can.  I wish we could just get rid of the foxpro, unfortunately the company doesn't want to get rid of a very old piece of software they bought that depends on it.
I'm working on a multithreaded C++ application that is corrupting the heap.  The usual tools to locate this corruption seem to be inapplicable.  Old builds (18 months old) of the source code exhibit the same behaviour as the most recent release, so this has been around for a long time and just wasn't noticed; on the downside, source deltas can't be used to identify when the bug was introduced - there are a lot of code changes in the repository.

The prompt for crashing behaviuor is to generate throughput in this system - socket transfer of data which is munged into an internal representation.  I have a set of test data that will periodically cause the app to exception (various places, various causes - including heap alloc failing, thus: heap corruption).

The behaviour seems related to CPU power or memory bandwidth; the more of each the machine has, the easier it is to crash.  Disabling a hyper-threading core or a dual-core core reduces the rate of (but does not eliminate) corruption.  This suggests a timing related issue.

Now here's the rub:
When it's run under a lightweight debug environment (say Visual Studio 98 / AKA MSVC6) the heap corruption is reasonably easy to reproduce - ten or fifteen minutes pass before something fails horrendously and exceptions, like an alloc; when running under a sophisticated debug environment (Rational Purify, VS2008/MSVC9 or even Microsoft Application Verifier) the system becomes memory-speed bound and doesn't crash (Memory-bound: CPU is not getting above 50%, disk light is not on, the program's going as fast it can, box consuming 1.3G of 2G of RAM).  So, I've got a choice between being able to reproduce the problem (but not identify the cause) or being able to idenify the cause or a problem I can't reproduce.

My current best guesses as to where to next is:


Get an insanely grunty box (to replace the current dev box: 2Gb RAM in an E6550 Core2 Duo); this will make it possible to repro the crash causing mis-behaviour when running under a powerful debug environment; or
Rewrite operators new and delete to use VirtualAlloc and VirtualProtect to mark memory as read-only as soon as it's done with.  Run under MSVC6 and have the OS catch the bad-guy who's writing to freed memory.  Yes, this is a sign of desperation: who the hell rewrites new and delete?!  I wonder if this is going to make it as slow as under Purify et al.


And, no: Shipping with Purify instrumentation built in is not an option.

A colleague just walked past and asked "Stack Overflow?  Are we getting stack overflows now?!?"

And now, the question: How do I locate the heap corruptor?



Update: balancing new[] and delete[] seems to have gotten a long way towards solving the problem.  Instead of 15mins, the app now goes about two hours before crashing.  Not there yet.  Any further suggestions? The heap corruption persists.

Update: a release build under Visual Studio 2008 seems dramatically better; current suspicion rests on the STL implementation that ships with VS98.




  
  Reproduce the problem. Dr Watson will produce a dump that might be helpful in further analysis. 
  


I'll take a note of that, but I'm concerned that Dr Watson will only be tripped up after the fact, not when the heap is getting stomped on.


  Another try might be using WinDebug as a debugging tool which is quite powerful being at the same time also lightweight.


Got that going at the moment, again: not much help until something goes wrong.  I want to catch the vandal in the act.


  Maybe these tools will allow you at least to narrow the problem to certain component.


I don't hold much hope, but desperate times call for...


  And are you sure that all the components of the project have correct runtime library settings (C/C++ tab, Code Generation category in VS 6.0 project settings)?


No I'm not, and I'll spend a couple of hours tomorrow going through the workspace (58 projects in it) and checking they're all compiling and linking with the appropriate flags.

Update: This took 30 seconds.  Select all projects in the Settings dialog, unselect until you find the project(s) that don't have the right settings (they all had the right settings).

Were defining a C# module to outsource (I dont like it either ...) 

maintaining and evolving it will be done inhouse.

Is there any good way to define and autocheck the in-code documentation quality ? 

I've got a menu in Python. That part was easy. I'm using raw_input() to get the selection from the user. 

The problem is that raw_input (and input) require the user to press Enter after they make a selection. Is there any way to make the program act immediately upon a keystroke? Here's what I've got so far:



It would be great to have something like



I am running a Tomcat application, and I need to display some time values.  Unfortunately, the time is coming up an hour off.  I looked into it and discovered that my default TimeZone is being set to:



Rather than the Pacific time zone.  This is further indicated when I try to print the default time zone's display name, and it comes up "GMT-08:00", which seems to indicate to me that it is not correctly set to the US Pacific time zone.  I am running on Ubuntu Hardy Heron, upgraded from Gutsy Gibbon.

Is there a configuration file I can update to tell the JRE to use Pacific with all the associated daylight savings time information?  The time on my machine shows correctly, so it doesn't seem to be an OS-wide misconfiguration.



Ok, here's an update. A coworker suggested I update JAVA_OPTS in my /etc/profile to include "-Duser.timezone=US/Pacific", which worked (I also saw CATALINA_OPTS, which I updated as well). Actually, I just exported the change into the variables rather than use the new /etc/profile (a reboot later will pick up the changes and I will be golden).

However, I still think there is a better solution... there should be a configuration for Java somewhere that says what timezone it is using, or how it is grabbing the timezone. If someone knows such a setting, that would be awesome, but for now this is a decent workaround.



I am using 1.5, and it is most definitely a DST problem.  As you can see, the time zone is set to not use daylight savings.  My belief is it is generically set to -8 offset rather than the specific Pacific timezone.  Since the generic -8 offset has no daylight savings info, it's of course not using it, but the question is, where do I tell Java to use Pacific time zone when it starts up?  I'm NOT looking for a programmatic solution, it should be a configuration solution.

I need to grab the base64-encoded representation of the ViewState. Obviously this would not be available until fairly late in the request lifecycle, which is OK.

For example, if the output of the page includes:



I need a way on the server side to get the value "/wEPDwUJODU0Njc5MD...=="

To clarify, I need this value when the page is being rendered, not on PostBack. e.g. I need to know the ViewState value that is being sent to the client, not the ViewState I'm getting back from them.

How do you expose a LINQ query as an ASMX web service? Usually, from the business tier, I can return a typed DataSet or DataTable which can be serialized for transport over ASMX.

How can I do the same for a LINQ query? Is there a way to populate a typed DataSet or DataTable via a LINQ query?: 



How can I get the resultset of a LINQ query into a DataSet or DataTable? Alternatively, is the LINQ query serializeable so that I can expose it as an ASMX web service?

In C#, (and feel free to answer for other languages), what order does the runtime evaluate a logic statement?

Example:



Which statement does the runtime evaluate first - 



or:



?

Is there a time when the compiler would ever evaluate the statement backwards? Perhaps when an "OR" operator is involved?




   is known as a logical bitwise operator and will always evaluate all the sub-expressions


What is a good example of when to use the bitwise operator instead of the "short-circuited boolean"?

I have created a PHP-script to update a webserver that is live inside a local directory.
I'm migrating the script into Python. It works fine for the most part, but after a PUT command the size of the file appears to change. Thus, the size of the file is different from that of the file on the server. 

Once I download again the file from the FTP server, the only difference is the CR/LF mark. This annoys me because the same script is comparing the size of the files to update. Also, in case it means anything, the script works perfectly in PHP va ftp_put.



Any suggestions?

I've found many sources that talk about the automated Eclipse PDE process.  I feel these sources don't do a good job explaining what's going on.

I can create the deployable package, in a semi-manual process via the Feature Export.  

The automated process requires knowledge of how the org.eclipse.pde.build scripts work.  I have gotten a build created, but not for JNLP.

Questions:


Has anyone ever deployed RCP through JNLP?
Were you able to automate the builds?

I'm starting work on a hobby project with a python codebase and would like to set up some form of continuous integration (i.e. running a battery of test-cases each time a check-in is made and sending nag e-mails to responsible persons when the tests fail) similar to CruiseControl or TeamCity.

I realize I could do this with hooks in most VCSes, but that requires that the tests run on the same machine as the version control server, which isn't as elegant as I would like. Does anyone have any suggestions for a small, user-friendly, open-source continuous integration system suitable for a Python codebase?

Example: I have two shared objects (same should apply to .dlls). The first shared object is from a third-party library, we'll call it libA.so. I have wrapped some of this with JNI and created my own library, libB.so. Now libB depends on libA.

When webstarting, both libraries are places in some webstart working area. My java code attempts to load libB. At this point the system loader will attempt to load libA which is not in the system library path (java.library.path won't help this). The end result is that libB has an unsatisfied link and cannot be used. 

I have tried loading libA before libB, but that still does not work. Seems the OS wants to do that loading for me. Is there any way I can make this work other than statically  compiling?
Yahoo has separate map for India ( which has more details than the regular maps.yahoo.com) at http://in.maps.yahoo.com/ . But when I use the API it goes to default map. How do I get API access to YMaps India? 
I got this error today when trying to open a Visual Studio 2008 project in Visual Studio 2005:


  The imported project "C:\Microsoft.CSharp.targets" was not found.


Is there a way of mapping data collected on a stream or array to a data structure or vice-versa?
In C++ this would simply be a matter of casting a pointer to the stream as a data type I want to use (or vice-versa for the reverse)
eg: in C++



obviously the C++ way is pretty unsafe unless you are sure of the quality of the stream data when reading incoming data, but for outgoing data is super quick and easy.

I've opened an old workspace that is a libray and its test harness. It used to work fine but now doesn't and older versions of the code don't work either with the same errors. I've tried recreating the project and that causes the same errors too. Nothing seems out of order in project settings and the code generated works in the main app.

I've stripped out most of the files and got it down to the bare minimum to generate the error. Unfortunately I can't post the project as this is used in production code.

The LNK2001 linker error I get usually means I've left off a library or forgot to implement a virtual function. However this is part of the standard template library - and is a header at that.

The code that is listed as having the problem in IOCompletionPort.obj doesn't actually use std::string directly, but does call a class that does: Comms::Exception accepts a std::string and the value of GetLastError or WSAGetLastError.

The function mentioned in the error (GetMessage) is implemented, but is a virtual function so other classes can override it if need be. However it appears that the compiler has made it as an Ansi version, but I can't find any options in the settings that would control that. I suspect that might be the problem but since there's very little in the way of options for the library I have no way of knowing for sure. However both projects to specify _MBCS in the compiler options.



Any suggestions? I've lost most of the morning to this and don't want to lose most of the afternoon too.

This gets the value of whatever is selected in my dropdown menu.



I cannot however find out what property to go after for the text that's currently displayed by the drop down menu. I tried "text" then looked at W3Schools but that didn't have the answer, does anybody here know?

For those not sure, here's the HTML for a drop down box.



I currently use a DataTable to get results from a database which I can use in my code.

However, many example on the web show using a DataSet instead and accessing the table(s) through the collections method.

Is there any advantage, performance wise or otherwise, of using DataSets or DataTables as a storage method for SQL results?

There are several ways to iterate over a result set, which way is the best?

My Goal

I would like to have a main processing thread (non GUI), and be able to spin off GUIs in their own background threads as needed, and having my main non GUI thread keep working. Put another way, I want my main non GUI-thread to be the owner of the GUI-thread and not vice versa. I'm not sure this is even possible with Windows Forms(?)

Background

I have a component based system in which a controller dynamically load assemblies and instantiates and run classes implementing a common IComponent interface with a single method DoStuff().

Which components that gets loaded is configured via a xml configuration file and by adding new assemblies containing different implementations of IComponent. The components provides utility functions to the main application. While the main program is doing it's thing, e.g. controlling a nuclear plant, the components might be performing utility tasks (in their own threads), e.g. cleaning the database, sending emails, printing funny jokes on the printer, what have you. What I would like, is to have one of these components be able to display a GUI, e.g. with status information for the said email sending component.

The lifetime of the complete system looks like this


Application starts.
Check configuration file for components to load. Load them.
For each component, run DoStuff() to initialize it and make it live its own life in their own threads.
Continue to do main application-thingy king of work, forever.


I have not yet been able to successfully perform point 3 if the component fires up a GUI in DoStuff(). It simply just halts until the GUI is closed. And not until the GUI is closed does the program progress to point 4.

It would be great if these components were allowed to start up their own Windows Forms GUIs.

Problem

When a component tries to fire up a GUI in DoStuff() (the exact line of code is when the component runs Application.Run(theForm)), the component and hence our system "hangs" at the Application.Run() line until the GUI is closed. Well, the just fired up GUI works fine, as expected.

Example of components. One hasn't nothing to do with GUI, whilst the second fires up a cute windows with pink fluffy bunnies in them.



I have tried this with no luck. Even when I try to fire up the GUI in it's own thread, the execution halts until the GUI as closed.



Is it possible to spin off a GUI and return after Application.Run()?

One of the fun parts of multi-cultural programming is number formats.


Americans use 10,000.50
Germans use 10.000,50
French use 10 000,50


My first approach would be to take the string, parse it backwards, until I encounter a separator and use this as my decimal separator. There is an obvious flaw with that: 10.000 would be interpreted as 10.

Another approach: if the string contains 2 different non-numeric characters, use the last one as the decimal separator and discard the others. If I only have one, check if it occurs more than once and discard it if it does. If it only appears once, check if it has 3 digits after it. If yes, discard it, otherwise use it as decimal separator.

The obvious "best solution" would be to detect the User's culture or Browser, but that does not work if you have a Frenchman using an en-US Windows/Browser.

Does the .net Framework contain some mythical black magic floating point parser that is better than Double.(Try)Parse() in trying to auto-detect the number format?

So I find myself porting a game, that was originally written for the Win32 API, to Linux (well, porting the OS X port of the Win32 port to Linux). I have implemented QueryPerformanceCounter by giving the uSeconds since the process start up:  



This, coupled with QueryPerformanceFrequency() giving a constant 1000000 as the frequency, works well on my machine, giving me a 64 bit variable that contains uSeconds since the program's start up. So is this portable? I don't want to discover it works differently if the kernel was compiled in a certain way or anything like that. I am fine with it being non-portable to something other than Linux, however.

Which of the following has the best performance?

I have seen method two implemented in JavaScript with huge performance gains, however, I was unable to measure any gain in C# and was wondering if the compiler already does method 2 even when written like method 1.

The theory behind method 2 is that the code doesn't have to access DataTable.Rows.Count on every iteration, it can simple access the int c.

Method 1



Method 2



All the articles I've found via google are either obsolete or contradict one another.

What's the easiest way to print a form or, say, a richtextbox in c#? I think it's using the PrintDiaglog class by setting the Document, but how does this get converted?

SQL:



I have a binary file that I have to parse and I'm using Python. Is there a way to take 4 bytes and convert it to a single precision floating point number?
I'm trying to convince my providers to use ANT instead of Rational Application Development so anyone can recompile, recheck, redeploy the solution anyplace, anytime, anyhow. :P

I started a build.xml for a project that generates a JAR file but stopped there and I need real examples to compare notes. My good friends! I don't have anyone close to chat about this! 

This is my build.xml so far. 

(*) I edited my question based in the suggestion of to use pastebin.ca
I know that we can get the MAC address of a user via IE (ActiveX objects).

Is there a way to do the same thing in all browsers? (Especially since FF is gaining browser share everyday!)
I need to be able to manipulate a large (10^7 nodes) graph in python. The data corresponding to each node/edge is minimal, say, a small number of strings. What is the most efficient, in terms of memory and speed, way of doing this? 

A dict of dicts is more flexible and simpler to implement, but I intuitively expect a list of lists to be faster. The list option would also require that I keep the data separate from the structure, while dicts would allow for something of the sort:



What would you suggest?



Yes, I should have been a bit clearer on what I mean by efficiency. In this particular case I mean it in terms of random access retrieval.

Loading the data in to memory isn't a huge problem. That's done once and for all. The time consuming part is visiting the nodes so I can extract the information and measure the metrics I'm interested in.

I hadn't considered making each node a class (properties are the same for all nodes) but it seems like that would add an extra layer of overhead? I was hoping someone would have some direct experience with a similar case that they could share. After all, graphs are one of the most common abstractions in CS.

I learned Swing back in the day but now I've moved to Python and want to make some apps with GUIs. I haven't had the time to learn a new GUI API so I've been using Jython, but I would prefer to use CPython. 

It would be great if I can have one simple markup that allows me to switch GUI libraries. It would be even better if I can use the same markup language across languages so I can quickly make GUIs for any language I'm using. Does anyone know of such a markup/library?

I've seen markups like Glade and wxWidget's markup (I forget the name). They're partly what I'm looking for (making a GUI without coding it in a language) but they're intertwined with a specific library. And neither are really nice looking or friendly to human editting.
What do I need to look at to see if I'm on Windows, Unix, etc?

I've always been intrigued by Map Routing, but I've never found any good introductory (or even advanced!) level tutorials on it. Does anybody have any pointers, hints, etc?

Update: I'm primarily looking for pointers as to how a map system is implemented (data structures, algorithms, etc).

I'm trying to read binary data using C#. I have all information about the layout of the data in the files I want to read. I'm able to read the data "chunk by chunk", i.e. getting the first 40 bytes of data converting it to a string, get the next 40 bytes, ...
Since there are at least three slighlty different version of the data, I would like to read the data directly into a struct. It just feels so much more right than by reading it "line by line".
I have tried the following approach but to no avail:StructType aStruct;
int count = Marshal.SizeOf(typeof(StructType));
byte[] readBuffer = new byte[count];
BinaryReader reader = new BinaryReader(stream);
readBuffer = reader.ReadBytes(count);
GCHandle handle = GCHandle.Alloc(readBuffer, GCHandleType.Pinned);
aStruct = (StructType) Marshal.PtrToStructure(handle.AddrOfPinnedObject(), typeof(StructType));
handle.Free();

The stream is an opened FileStream from which I have began to read from. I get an AccessViolationException when using Marshal.PtrToStructure.
The stream contains more information than I'm trying to read since I'm not interested in data at the end of the file.
The struct is defined like:[StructLayout(LayoutKind.Explicit)]
struct StructType
{
    [FieldOffset(0)]
    public string FileDate;
    [FieldOffset(8)]
    public string FileTime;
    [FieldOffset(16)]
    public int Id1;
    [FieldOffset(20)]
    public string Id2;
}

The examples code is changed from original to make this question shorter.
How would I read binary data from a file into a struct?
I'm creating a web application on Google App Engine for fun and I'd like to include graphs so users can see some stats. Are there any free (either as in beer or speech) JavaScript libraries that can take a table or make some AJAX call and display a graph?

I have a custom validation function in JavaScript in a user control on a .Net 2.0 web site which checks to see that the fee paid is not in excess of the fee amount due. 

I've placed the validator code in the ascx file, and I have also tried using Page.ClientScript.RegisterClientScriptBlock() and in both cases the validation fires, but cannot find the JavaScript function.

The output in Firefox's error console is "feeAmountCheck is not defined". Here is the function (this was taken directly from firefox->view source)



Any ideas as to why the function isn't being found? How can I remedy this without having to add the function to my master page or consuming page?

I'm looking for some way to effectively hide inherited members. I have a library of classes which inherit from common base classes.  Some of the more recent descendant classes inherit dependency properties which have become vestigial and can be a little confusing when using IntelliSense or using the classes in a visual designer.

These classes are all controls that are written to be compiled for either WPF or Silverlight 2.0.  I know about ICustomTypeDescriptor and ICustomPropertyProvider, but I'm pretty certain those can't be used in Silverlight.  

It's not as much a functional issue as a usability issue.  What should I do?

Update

Some of the properties that I would really like to hide come from ancestors that are not my own and because of a specific tool I'm designing for, I can't do member hiding with the new operator.  (I know, it's ridiculous)

I am building a web page to show a customer what software they purchased and to give them a link to download said software.  Unfortunately, the data on what was purchased and the download information are in separate databases so I can't just take care of it with joins in a query.

The common item is SKU.  I'll be pulling back a list of SKUs from the customer purchases database, and on the download table is a comma delineated list of SKUs associated with that download.  My intention, at the moment, is to create from this one datatable to populate a GridView.

Any suggestions on how to do this efficiently would be appreciated.  If it helps, I can pretty easily pull back the data as a DataSet or a DataReader, if either one would be better for this purpose.

Basically, I've written an API to www.thetvdb.com in Python. The current code can be found here.

It grabs data from the API as requested, and has to store the data somehow, and make it available by doing:



What is the "best" way to abstract this data within the Tvdb() class?

I originally used a extended Dict() that automatically created sub-dicts (so you could do x[1][2][3][4] = "something" without having to do if x[1].has_key(2): x[1][2] = [] and so on)

Then I just stored the data by doing self.data[show_id][season_number][episode_number][attribute_name] = "something"

This worked okay, but there was no easy way of checking if x[3][24] was supposed to exist or not (so I couldn't raise the season_not_found exception)

Currently it's using four classes. ShowContainer, Show, Season and Episode. Each one is a very basic dict, which I can easily add extra functionality in (the search() function on Show() for example). Each has a __setitem__, __getitem_ and has_key

This works mostly fine, I can check in Shows if it has that season in it's self.data dict, if not, raise season_not_found. Check in Season() if it has that episode and so on.

The problem now is it's presenting itself as a dict, but doesn't have all the functionality, and because I'm overriding the _getitem_ and _setitem_ functions, it's easy to accidently recursively call _getitem_ (so I'm not sure if extending the Dict class will cause problems)

The other slight problem is adding data into the dict is a lot more work than the old Ddict method (which was self.data[seas_no][ep_no]['attribute'] = 'something'). See _setItem and _setData. It's not too bad, since it's currently only a read-only API interface (so the users of the API should only ever retrieve data, not add more), but it's hardly.. elegant..

I think the series-of-classes system is probably the best way, but does anyone have a better idea for storing the data? And would extending the ShowContainer/etc classes with Dict cause problems?
How would I go about generating a list of all possible permutations of a string between x and y characters in length, containing a variable list of characters.

Any language would work, but it should be portable.

Python works on multiple platforms and can be used for desktop and web applications, thus I conclude that there is some way to compile it into an executable for Mac, Windows and Linux.

The problem being I have no idea where to start or how to write a GUI with it, can anybody shed some light on this and point me in the right direction please?
I'm writing a CMS application in PHP and one of the requirements is that it must be able to interface with the customer's Exchange server.  I've written up this functionality a few times before and have always used WebDAV to do it, but now I'm leaning away from that.

I will be running the site on IIS OR Apache (no preference) on Windows server 2008.  A few things I would need to do include adding contacts to a given user's address book, sending emails as a given user and running reports on contacts for a user.

All of this is pretty easy to do with WebDAV, but if there is a better way that doesn't require any functionality that is likely to be deprecated any time soon.

Any ideas?

Update:

Justin, I love the idea of using com objects, I just worry about maintaining a 3rd product to make everything work...

John, I can write a web service in C# to interface with for these functions and access it with my PHP app, but it's also a little bit out of the way.

So far, I'm not 100% convinced that either of these is better than WebDAV... 

Can anyone show me where I'm being silly?

I have been working with JXTA 2.3 for the last year or so for a peer-to-peer computing platform I am developing. I am migrating to JXTA 2.5 and in the process I am trying to clean up a lot of my use of JXTA. For the most part, I approached JXTA with a just make it work attitude. I used it to jumpstart creating and managing my peer-to-peer overlay network and providing basic communication services. I would like to use it in a more JXTA way since I am making changes to move to 2.5 anyway.

My first step would be a basic creation of a custom PeerGroup. I see some new new mechanisms that are using the META-INF.services infrastructure of Java. Should I be listing a related PeerGroup implementing object here with a GUID in net.jxta.platform.Module? As I understand it, if I do this, when a group with a spec ID matching the GUID is encountered and joined or created it should automatically use the matching object. I should be able to just manually tie a PeerGroup object to the group but this new method using META-INF seems to be a lot easier to manage.

Does anyone have any pointers or examples of using this infrastructure for PeerGroup implementation? Also, some general information on the META-INF.services mechanism in Java would be helpful.

How can I set the CSS background color of an HTML element using JavaScript?

What is the meaning of the Java warning?


  Type safety: The cast from Object to List is actually checking against the erased type List


I get this warning when I try to cast an Object to a type with generic information, such as in the following code:



Recently our site has been deluged with the resurgence of the Asprox botnet SQL injection attack. Without going into details, the attack attempts to execute SQL code by encoding the T-SQL commands in an ASCII encoded BINARY string. It looks something like this:



I was able to decode this in SQL, but I was a little wary of doing this since I didn't know exactly what was happening at the time.

I tried to write a simple decode tool, so I could decode this type of text without even touching SQLServer. The main part I need decoded is:



I've tried all of the following commands with no luck:



What is the proper way to translate this encoding without using SQL Server? Is it possible? I'll take VB.NET code since I'm familiar with that too.



Okay, I'm sure I'm missing something here, so here's where I'm at.

Since my input is a basic string, I started with just a snippet of the encoded portion - 4445434C41 (which translates to DECLA) - and the first attempt was to do this...



...and all it did was return the exact same thing that I put in, since it converted each character into is byte.

I realized that I need to parse each two characters into a byte manually since I don't know of any methods yet that will do that, so now my little decoder looks something like this:



Things look good for the first couple of pairs, but then the loop balks when it gets to the "4C" pair and says that the string is in the incorrect format.

Interestingly enough, when I step through the debugger and to the GetString method on the byte array that I was able to parse up to that point, I get ",-+" as the result.

How do I figure out what I'm missing - do I need to do a "direct cast" for each byte instead of attempting to parse it?

Using ASP.NET MVC there are situations (such as form submission) that may require a RedirectToAction.  

One such situation is when you encounter validation errors after a form submission and need to redirect back to the form, but would like the URL to reflect the URL of the form, not the action page it submits to.

As I require the form to contain the originally POSTed data, for user convenience, as well as validation purposes, how can I pass the data through the RedirectToAction()?  If I use the viewData parameter, my POST parameters will be changed to GET parameters.

I have an application that writes information to file. This information is used post-execution to determine pass/failure/correctness of the application. I'd like to be able to read the file as it is being written so that I can do these pass/failure/correctness checks in realtime.

I assume it is possible to do this, but what are the gotchas involved when using Java? If the reading catches up to the writing, will it just wait for more writes up until the file is closed, or will the read throw an exception at this point? If the latter, what do I do then? 

My intuition is currently pushing me towards BufferedStreams. Is this the way to go?

I need to set the height of every textbox on my form, some of which are nested within other controls.  I thought I could do something like this:



Using it like this:



But of course the compiler spits its dummy, because foreach expects an IEnumerable rather than an IEnumerator.

Is there a way to do this without having to create a separate class with a GetEnumerator() method?

Im trying to create a bookmarklet for posting del.icio.us bookmarks to a seperate account.

I tested it from the command line like:



and this works great

I then wanted to create a bookmarklet in my firefox. I googled and found bits and pieces and ended up with:



but all that happens is that I get this from del.icio.us:



If I then go to the address bar and press enter, it changes to:



Any ideas how to get it to work directly from the bookmarks?

So, in Java, the first line of your constructor HAS to be a call to super... be it implicitly calling super(), or explicitly calling another constructor.  What I want to know is, why can't I put a try block around that?

My specific case is that I have a mock class for a test.  There is no default constructor, but I want one to make the tests simpler to read.  I also want to wrap the exceptions thrown from the constructor into a RuntimeException.

So, what I want to do is effectively this:



But Java complains that super isn't the first statement.

My workaround:



Is this the best workaround?  Why doesn't Java let me do the former?



My best guess as to the "why" is that Java doesn't want to let me have a constructed object in a potentially inconsistent state... however, in doing a mock, I don't care about that.  It seems I should be able to do the above... or at least I know that the above is safe for my case... or seems as though it should be anyways.

I am overriding any methods I use from the tested class, so there is no risk that I am using uninitialized variables.

In many places,(1,2,3) and [1,2,3] can be used interchangably.

When should I use one or the other, and why?  

Suppose I have the following CSS rule in my page:

body {
    font-family: Calibri, Trebuchet MS, Helvetica, sans-serif;
}


How can I detect which one of the defined fonts was used in the user's browser?

Edit for people wondering why I want to do this: The font I'm detecting contains glyph's that are not available in other fonts and when the user does not have the font I want to display a link asking the user to download that font so they can use my web application with the correct font.

Currently I am displaying the download font link for all users, I want to only display this for people who do not have the correct font installed.

I am currently working on a project and my goal is to locate text in an image. OCR'ing the text is not my intention as of yet. I want to basically obtain the bounds of text within an image. I am using the AForge.Net imaging component for manipulation. Any assistance in some sense or another?

Update 2/5/09:
I've since went along another route in my project. However I did attempt to obtain text using MODI (Microsoft Office Document Imaging). It allows you to OCR an image and pull text from it with some ease.

A windows exe file has access to the command string which invoked it, including its path and filename. eg. C:\MyApp\MyApp.exe --help.

But this is not so for a dll invoked via LoadLibrary. Does anyone know of a way for a dll to find out what its path and filename is?

Specifically I'm interested in a Delphi solution, but I suspect that the answer would be pretty much the same for any language.

When asked to create system XYZ and you ask to do it in Python over PHP or Ruby, what are the main features you can mention when they require you to explain it?
By "generate", I mean auto-generation of the code necessary for a particuliar selected (set of) variable(s).

But any more explicit explication or comment on good practice is welcome.

I have a client-server app where the client is on a Windows Mobile 6 device, written in C++ and the server is on full Windows and written in C#. 

Originally, I only needed it to send messages from the client to the server, with the server only ever sending back an acknowledgment that it received the message.  Now, I would like to update it so that the server can actually send a message to the client to request data.  As I currently have it set up so the client is only in receive mode after it sends data to the server, this doesn't allow for the server to send a request at any time.  I would have to wait for client data.  My first thought would be to create another thread on the client with a separate open socket, listening for server requests...just like the server already has in respect the the client.  Is there a way, within the same thread and using the same socket, to all the server to send requests at any time?

Can you use something to the affect of WaitForMultipleObjects() and pass it a receive buffer and an event that tells it there is data to be sent?

I've never been completely happy with the way exception handling works, there's a lot exceptions and try/catch brings to the table (stack unwinding, etc.), but it seems to break a lot of the OO model in the process.

Anyway, here's the problem:

Let's say you have some class which wraps or includes networked file IO operations (e.g. reading and writing to some file at some particular UNC path somewhere). For various reasons you don't want those IO operations to fail, so if you detect that they fail you retry them and you keep retrying them until they succeed or you reach a timeout. I already have a convenient RetryTimer class which I can instantiate and use to sleep the current thread between retries and determine when the timeout period has elapsed, etc.

The problem is that you have a bunch of IO operations in several methods of this class, and you need to wrap each of them in try-catch / retry logic.

Here's an example code snippet:



So, how do you avoid duplicating most of this code for every file IO operation throughout the class? My solution was to use anonymous delegate blocks and a single method in the class which executed the delegate block passed to it. This allowed me to do things like this in other methods:



I like this somewhat, but it leaves a lot to be desired. I'd like to hear how other people would solve this sort of problem.
I'm having trouble figuring out how to get the testing framework set up and usable in Visual Studio 2008 for C++ presumably with the built-in unit testing suite.

Any links or tutorials would be appreciated.

I'm using MSVE, and I have my own tiles I'm displaying in layers on top. Problem is, there's a ton of them, and they're on a network server. In certain directories, there are something on the order of 30,000+ files. Initially I called Directory.GetFiles, but once I started testing in a pseudo-real environment, it timed out.

What's the best way to programatically list, and iterate through, this many files?

Edit: My coworker suggested using the MS indexing service. Has anyone tried this approach, and (how) has it worked?
There are two popular closure styles in javascript. The first I call anonymous constructor:



and the inline executed function:



are there differences in behaviour between those two? Is one "better" over the other?
I recently encountered a problem where a value was null if accessed with Request.Form but fine if retrieved with Request.Params.  What are the differences between these methods that could cause this?
Why is Array.Length an int, and not an uint. This bothers me (just a bit), because a length value can never by negative. 

This also forced me to use an int for a length-property on my own class, because when you 
specify an int-value, this needs to be cast explicitly...

So the ultimate question is: is there any use for an unsigned int (uint)? Even Microsoft seems not to use them.

I'm about to build a piece of a project that will need to construct and post an XML document to a web service and I'd like to do it in Python, as a means to expand my skills in it.  

Unfortunately, whilst I know the XML model fairly well in .NET, I'm uncertain what the pros and cons are of the XML models in Python.  

Anyone have experience doing XML processing in Python? Where would you suggest I start? The XML files I'll be building will be fairly simple.

I am working on a collection of classes used for video playback and recording. I have one main class which acts like the public interface, with methods like play(), stop(), pause(), record() etc... Then I have workhorse classes which do the video decoding and video encoding. 

I just learned about the existence of nested classes in C++, and I'm curious to know what programmers think about using them. I am a little wary and not really sure what the benefits/drawbacks are, but they seem (according to the book I'm reading) to be used in cases such as mine.

The book suggests that in a scenario like mine, a good solution would be to nest the workhorse classes inside the interface class, so there are no separate files for classes the client is not meant to use, and to avoid any possible naming conflicts? I don't know about these justifications. Nested classes are a new concept to me. Just want to see what programmers think about the issue.

Is it possible to access an element on a Master page from the page loaded within the ContentPlaceHolder for the master?

I have a ListView that lists people's names in a navigation area on the Master page. I would like to update the ListView after a person has been added to the table that the ListView is data bound to. The ListView currently does not update it's values until the cache is reloaded. We have found that just re-running the ListView.DataBind() will update a listview's contents. We have not been able to run the ListView.DataBind() on a page that uses the Master page. 

Below is a sample of what I wanted to do but a compiler error says 


  "PeopleListView does not exist in the current context"


GIS.master - Where ListView resides



GISInput_People.aspx - Uses GIS.master as it's master page

GISInput_People.aspx.cs



What would be the best way to resolve an issue like this in C# .Net?

One of the sites I maintain relies heavily on use of ViewState (it isn't my code). However, on certain pages where the ViewState is extra-bloated, Safari throws a "Validation of viewstate MAC failed" error.

This appears to only happen in Safari. Firefox, IE and Opera all load successfully in the same scenario.

How do I delimit a Javascript databound string parameter in an anchor OnClick event?


I have an anchor tag in an ASP.NET Repeater control.  
The OnClick event of the anchor contains a call to a Javascript function.  
The Javascript function takes a string for its input parameter.  
The string parameter is populated with a databound value from the Repeater.


I need the "double quotes" for the Container.DataItem.
I need the 'single quotes' for the OnClick.

And I still need one more delimiter (triple quotes?) for the input string parameter of the Javascript function call.

Since I can't use 'single quotes' again, how do I ensure the Javascript function knows the input parameter is a string and not an integer?

Without the extra quotes around the input string parameter, the Javascript function thinks I'm passing in an integer.

Cheers in advance for any knowledge you can drop.

The anchor:



and here is the Javascript:



Typical way of creating a CSV string (pseudocode):


Create a CSV container object (like a StringBuilder in C#).
Loop through the strings you want to add appending a comma after each one.
After the loop, remove that last superfluous comma.


Code sample:



I like the idea of adding the comma by checking if the container is empty, but doesn't that mean more processing as it needs to check the length of the string on each occurrence?

I feel that there should be an easier/cleaner/more efficient way of removing that last comma. Any ideas?

I have experience writing console and network client/server applications in C and C++, but I know next to nothing about using the win32 visual API, MFC, Qt, wxWidgets, etc.  Where is a good place to start, and what method should I specialize in, so as to be future ready and robust?

A researcher has created a small simulation in MATLAB, and we want to make it accessible to others. My plan is to take the simulation, clean up a few things, and turn it into a set of functions. Then, I plan to compile it into a C library and use SWIG to create a Python wrapper. At that point, I should be able to call the simulation from a small Django app. At least, I hope so.

Do I have the right plan? Has anyone else done something similar? Can you let me know if there are some serious pitfalls I'm not aware of at the moment?
I want to print HTML from a C# web service.  The Web Browser control is overkill, and does not function well in a service environment, nor does it function well on a system with very tight security constraints.  Is there any sort of free .NET library that will support the printing of a basic HTML page?  Here is the code I have so far, which does not run properly.



This works fine when called from UI-type threads, but nothing happens when called from a service-type thread.  Changing Print() to ShowPrintPreviewDialog() yields the following IE script error:


  Error: 'dialogArguments.___IE_PrintType' is null or not an object
  URL: res://ieframe.dll/preview.dlg


And a small empty print preview dialog appears.

I have an application that displays an image inside of a Windows Forms PictureBox control.  The SizeMode of the control is set to Zoom so that the image contained in the PictureBox will be displayed in an aspect-correct way regardless of the dimensions of the PictureBox.

This is great for the visual appearance of the application because you can size the window however you want and the image will always be displayed using its best fit.  Unfortunately, I also need to handle mouse click events on the picture box and need to be able to translate from screen-space coordinates to image-space coordinates.

It looks like it's easy to translate from screen space to control space, but I don't see any obvious way to translate from control space to image space (i.e. the pixel coordinate in the source image that has been scaled in the picture box).

Is there an easy way to do this, or should I just duplicate the scaling math that they're using internally to position the image and do the translation myself?

I'm looking to introduce a unit testing framework into the mix at my job.  We're using Visual Studio 2005 (though we may be moving to 2008 within the next 6 months) and work primarily in C#.  If the framework has some kind of IDE integration that would be best, but I'm open to frameworks that don't have integration but are still relatively simple to get set up.  I'm going to get resistance to it one way or another, so if I can make sure what I'm pushing isn't a pain in the neck, that would help my case.

The obvious choice from the research I've done so far points to nUnit, but I'd like to get the impressions of someone who's actually used it before recommending it to my team.

Has anyone out there used nUnit?  If so, are there any pitfalls or limitations of which I should be aware?  Are there other good options out there?  If so, if you've used both nUnit at that, I'd greatly appreciate an idea of the strengths and weaknesses of them.

Instead of writing my ASP.NET C# applications in Visual Studio, I used my favorite text editor UltraEdit32.

Is there anyway I can implement MVC without the use of VS?

I was just wondering if there is an elegant way to set the maximum CPU load for a particular thread doing intensive calculations. 
Right now I have located the most time consuming loop in the thread (it does only compression) and use GetTickCount() and Sleep() with hardcoded values. It makes sure that the loop continues for a certain period of time and than sleeps for a certain minimal time. It more or less does the job i.e. guarantees that the thread will not use more than 50% of CPU. However behavior is dependent on the number of CPU cores (huge disadvantage) and simply ugly (smaller disadvantage :)). Any ideas?

I've read that it is possible to add a method to an existing object (e.g. not in the class definition) in Python, I think this is called Monkey Patching (or in some cases Duck Punching). I understand that it's not always a good decision to do so. But, how might one do this?

UPDATE 8/04/2008 00:21:01 EST:

That looks like a good answer John Downey, I tried it but it appears that it ends up being not a true method.

Your example defines the new patch function with an argument of self, but if you write actual code that way, the now patched class method asks for an argument named self (it doesn't automagically recognize it as the object to which it is supposed to bind, which is what would happen if defined within the class definition), meaning you have to call class.patch(obj) instead of just class.patch() if you want the same functionality as a true method.

It looks like Python isn't really treating it as a method, but more just as a variable which happens to be a function (and as such is callable).  Is there any way to attach an actual method to a class?

Oh, and Ryan, that isn't exactly what I was looking for (it isn't a builtin functionality), but it is quite cool nonetheless.

Is there an efficient method of converting an integer into the written numbers, for example:



would return "Twenty One".

Is there any way of doing this that doesn't involve a massive look-up table?

I specifically want to add the style of background-color to the body tag of a master page, from the code behind (C#) of a content page that uses that master page.  

I have different content pages that need to make the master page has different colors depending on which content page is loaded, so that the master page matches the content page's theme.

I have a solution below:



I'm looking for something more like:



Inside of the page load function of the content page.  But I can't get the above line to work. I only need to change the background-color for the body tag of the page.

Is there a C library function that will return the index of a character in a string?

So far, all I've found are functions like strstr that will return the found char *, not it's location in the original string.
I was just looking through some information about Google's protocol buffers data interchange format.  Has anyone played around with the code or even created a project around it?

I'm currently using XML in a Python project for structured content created by hand in a text editor, and I was wondering what the general opinion was on Protocol Buffers as a user-facing input format.  The speed and brevity benefits definitely seem to be there, but there are so many factors when it comes to actually generating and processing the data.
I would like to be able to use the Tab key within the a text box to tab over four spaces. The way it is now, the Tab key jumps my cursor to the next input.

Is there some JavaScript that will capture the Tab key in the text box before it bubbles up to the UI?

I understand some browsers (i.e. FireFox) may not allow this. How about a custom key-combo like Shift+Tab, or Ctrl+Q?

Using MAPI functions from within managed code is officially unsupported. Apparently, MAPI uses its own memory management and it crashes and burns within managed code (see here and here)

All I want to do is launch the default e-mail client with subject, body, AND one or more attachments. 

So I've been looking into MAPISendDocuments and it seems to work. But I haven't been able to gather courage to actually use the function in production code.

Has anybody used this function a lot? Do you have any horror stories?

PS. No, I won't shellExecute Outlook.exe with command line arguments for attachments.

PPS. Attachment support is a requirement , so Mailto: solutions do not cut it for me.
I'm just in the process of parsing some text and can't remember what the escape character is for a tab in C#?

Original Question

I am currently engaged in teaching my brother to program.  He is a total beginner, but very smart. (And he actually wants to learn).  I've noticed that some of our sessions have gotten bogged down in minor details, and I don't feel I've been very organized. (But the answers to this post have helped a lot.)

What can I do better to teach him effectively?  Is there a logical order that I can use to run through concept by concept?  Are there complexities I should avoid till later?

The language we are working with is Python, but advice in any language is welcome.



How to Help

If you have good ones please add the following in your answer:


Beginner Exercises and Project Ideas
Resources for teaching beginners
Screencasts / blog posts / free e-books
Print books that are good for beginners


Please describe the resource with a link to it so I can take a look.  I want everyone to know that I have definitely been using some of these ideas.  Your submissions will be aggregated in this post.



Online Resources for teaching beginners:


A Gentle Introduction to Programming Using Python
How to Think Like a Computer Scientist
Alice: a 3d program for beginners
Scratch (A system to develop programming skills)
How To Design Programs
Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs
Learn To Program
Robert Read's How To Be a Programmer
Microsoft XNA
Spawning the Next Generation of Hackers
COMP1917 Higher Computing lectures by Richard Buckland (requires iTunes)
Dive into Python
Python Wikibook
Project Euler - sample problems (mostly mathematical)
pygame - an easy python library for creating games
Invent Your Own Computer Games With Python
Foundations of Programming for a next step beyond basics.
Squeak by Example 
Snake Wrangling For Kids (It's not just for kids!)




Recommended Print Books for teaching beginners


Accelerated C++
Python Programming for the Absolute Beginner
Code by Charles Petzold
Python Programming: An Introduction to Computer Science 2nd Edition


I would like the version property of my application to be incremented for each build but I'm not sure on how to enable this functionality in Visual Studio (2005/2008). I have tried to specify the AssemblyVersion as 1.0.* but it doesn't get me exactly what I want. 

I'm also using a settings file and in earlier attempts when the assembly version changed my settings got reset to the default since the application looked for the settings file in another directory. 

I would like to be able to display a version number in the form of 1.1.38 so when a user finds a problem I can log the version they are using as well as tell them to upgrade if they have an old release.

A short explanation of how the versioning works would also be appreciated. When does the build and revision number get incremented?
I have a cross-platform (Python) application which needs to generate a JPEG preview of the first page of a PDF.

On the Mac I am spawning sips.  Is there something similarly simple I can do on Windows?

What is the best way to display Flash content in a C# WinForms application? I would like to create a user control (similar to the current PictureBox) that will be able to display images and flash content.

It would be great to be able to load the flash content from a stream of sorts rather than a file on disk.

I'm just getting into creating some WCF services, but I have a requirement to make them backward compatible for legacy (.NET 1.1 and 2.0) client applications.  

I've managed to get the services to run correctly for 3.0 and greater clients, but when I publish the services using a basicHttpBinding endpoint (which I believe is required for the compatibility I need), the service refactors my method signatures.  e.g.



appears to the client apps as



I've tried every configuration parameter I can think of in the app.config for my self-hosting console app, but I can't seem to make this function as expected.  I suppose this might lead to the fact that my expectations are flawed, but I'd be surprised that a WCF service is incapable of handling a bool return type to a down-level client.

My current app.config looks like this.



Can anyone advise, please?

One may not always know the Type of an object at compile-time, but may need to create an instance of the Type.  How do you get a new object instance from a Type?
I am using the Photoshop's javascript API to find the fonts in a given PSD.

Given a font name returned by the API, I want to find the actual physical font file that that font name corresponds to on the disc.

This is all happening in a python program running on OSX so I guess I'm looking for one of:


Some Photoshop javascript
A Python function
An OSX API that I can call from python


I want to convert a primitive to a string, and I tried:



This fails with the error:



Now, I get that primitives are not reference types (ie, not an Object) and so cannot have methods.  However, Java 5 introduced autoboxing and unboxing (a la C#... which I never liked in C#, but that's beside the point).  So with autoboxing, I would expect the above to convert myInt to an Integer and then call toString() on that.

Furthermore, I believe C# allows such a call, unless I remember incorrectly.  Is this just an unfortunate shortcoming of Java's autoboxing/unboxing specification, or is there a good reason for this?

Uploading my first decently sized web app to my shared host provided me with a fresh set of challenges, by which I mean, sleepless nights. The issue was that I had most certainly not developed my application for medium trust (or had any clue what that was.) 

I mitigated all of the issues, save one. 

I had written an installer for the admin to be able to specify their connectionstring and other preferences, but I cannot find a way to write to a web.config in medium trust. Does anyone have a solution, or should I just be putting preferences in another file?

I was just sitting at my local Borders sipping coffee and reading More Joel on Software (for free) when I came across Joel Spolsky saying something about a particular type of programmer knowing the difference between an int and an Integer in Java/C# (Object Oriented Programming Languages).

After a quick 'brain check,' I realized, to my dismay, that I didn't know the answer.

I am aware that in .NET there are three timer types (see Comparing the Timer Classes in the .NET Framework Class Library). I have chosen a threaded timer as the other types can drift if the main thread is busy, and I need this to be reliable.

The way this timer works in the control of the timer is put on another thread so it can always tick along with the work begin completed on the parent thread when it is not busy.

The issue with this timer in a console application is that while the timer is ticking along on another thread the main thread is not doing anything so the application closes.

I tried adding a while true loop, but then the main thread is too busy when the timer does go off.

On a recent Java project, we needed a free Java based real-time data plotting utility.  After much searching, we found this tool called the Scientific Graphics Toolkit or SGT from NOAA.  It seemed pretty robust, but we found out that it wasn't terribly configurable.  Or at least not configurable enough to meet our needs.  We ended up digging very deeply into the Java code and reverse engineering the code and changing it all around to make the plot tool look and act the way we wanted it to look and act.  Of course, this killed any chance for future upgrades from NOAA.  

So what free or cheap Java based data plotting tools or libraries do you use?

Followup:  Thanks for the JFreeChart suggestions.  I checked out their website and it looks like a very nice data charting and plotting utility.  I should have made it clear in my original question that I was looking specifically to plot real-time data.  I corrected my question above to make that point clear.  It appears that JFreeChart support for live data is marginal at best, though.  Any other suggestions out there?

The ASP.NET AJAX ModalPopupExtender has OnCancelScript and OnOkScript properties, but it doesn't seem to have an OnShowScript property.  I'd like to specify a javascript function to run each time the popup is shown.

In past situations, I set the TargetControlID to a dummy control and provide my own control that first does some JS code and then uses the JS methods to show the popup.  But in this case, I am showing the popup from both client and server side code.

Anyone know of a way to do this?

BTW, I needed this because I have a textbox in the modal that I want to make a TinyMCE editor. But the TinyMCE init script doesn't work on invisible textboxes, so I had to find a way to run it at the time the modal was shown

I've been tasked (by my wife) with creating a program to allow her to track the family trees on both sides of our family.

Does anyone know of a cost effective (free) control to represent this type of information.

What I'm looking for is a modified org-chart type chart/tree.  The modification is that any node should have 2 parent nodes (E.G. a child should have a Mother/Father).

The solution I've came up with so far is to have 2 trees, an ancestor tree and a descendants tree, with the individual being inspected as the root node for each tree.  It works, but is sort of clunky.

I'm working primarily in c# WinForms, so .Net type controls or source code is preferrable.

How do you create your own custom moniker (or URL Protocol) on Windows systems?

Examples:


http:
mailto:
service:


I'm writing an application that is basically just a preferences dialog, much like the tree-view preferences dialog that Visual Studio itself uses. The function of the application is simply a pass-through for data from a serial device to a file. It performs many, many transformations on the data before writing it to the file, so the GUI for the application is simply all the settings that dictate what those transformations should be.

What's the best way to go about designing/coding a tree-view preferences dialog? The way I've been going about it is building the main window with a docked tree control on the left. Then I have been creating container controls that correspond to each node of the tree. When a node is selected, the app brings that node's corresponding container control to the front, moves it to the right position, and maximizes it in the main window. This seems really, really clunky while designing it. It basically means I have tons of container controls beyond the edge of the main window during design time that I have to keep scrolling the main window over to in order to work with them. I don't know if this totally makes sense the way I'm writing this, but maybe this visual for what I'm talking about will make more sense:



Basically I have to work with this huge form, with container controls all over the place, and then do a bunch of run-time reformatting to make it all work. This seems like a lot of extra work. Am I doing this in a totally stupid way? Is there some "obvious" easier way of doing this that I'm missing?

I've been working with providers a fair bit lately, and I came across an interesting situation where I wanted to have an abstract class that had an abstract static method. I read a few posts on the topic, and it sort of made sense, but is there a nice clear explanation?

How do you resolve a domain name to an IP address with .NET/C#?
Given a specific DateTime value, how do I display relative time, like:


2 hours ago
3 days ago
a month ago


I'm downloading an entire directory from a web server. It works OK, but I can't figure how to get the file size before download to compare if it was updated on the server or not. Can this be done as if I was downloading the file from a FTP server?





@Jon: thank for your quick answer. It works, but the filesize on the web server is slightly less than the filesize of the downloaded file. 

Examples:



It has anything to do with the CR/LF conversion?

I have values stored as strings in a DataTable where each value could really represent an int, double, or string (they were all converted to strings during an import process from an external data source). I need to test and see what type each value really is.

What is more efficient for the application (or is there no practical difference)?


Try to convert to int (and then double). If conversion works, the return true. If an exception is thrown, return false.
Regular expressions designed to match the pattern of an int or double
Some other method?


When you data bind in C#, the thread that changes the data causes the control to change too. But if this thread is not the one on which the control was created, you'll get the above exception.

I surfed the net and found no good answer.

Anyone?

I'm looking to add a testing suite to my application, however I can't move to the newer testing frameworks for .NET 3.5. 

Does anyone have a suggestion about good testing frameworks to use?

If I have a JavaScript associative array, say:



Is there a built-in or accepted best practice way to get the length of this array?

JavaScript does not have associative arrays -- it only has objects, which can be used as a notion of associative arrays.**

What is the Java equivalent of PHP's $_POST? After searching the web for an hour, I'm still nowhere closer.

There are a few ways to get class-like behavior in javascript, the most common seem to be prototype based like this:



and closure based approaches similar to



For various reasons the latter is faster, but I've seen (and I frequently do write) the prototype version and was curious as to what other people do.

The application my team is currently developing has a DLL that is used to perform all database access.  The application can not use a trusted connection because the database is behind a firewall and the domain server is not.  So it appears that the connection string needs to have a DB username and password.  The DLL currently has the database connection string hard coded, but I don't want to do this when we launch as the assembly can be disassembled and the username and password would be right there in the open.

One of the requirements is that the password needs to be changed once every few months, so we would need to roll that out to our internal user base.

Is there a way to store the password encrypted in such a way we can easily distribute to the entire user base without storing it in the assembly?

UPDATE: Thanks to everyone who's answered.  I'll try to answer some of the questions back to me...  The data DLL is used by both ASP.NET WebForms and VB.NET WinForms.  I understand that Applications can have their own config files, but I haven't seen anything on config files for DLLs.  Unfortunately, I can't get to the Jon Galloway post at work so I can't judge if that will work.  From a development standpoint, we don't want to use web services inhouse, but may be providing them to third parties sometime next year.  I don't think impersonation will work because we can't authenticate the user through the firewall.  As a user (or former user) can be an attacker, we're keeping it from everyone!

Even though I have a robust and fast computer (Pentium Dual Core 2.0 with 2Gb RAM), I'm always searching for lightweight software to have on it, so it runs fast even when many apps are up and running simultaneously.

On the last few weeks I've been migrating gradually to Linux and want to install a free lightweight yet useful IDE to program on C++ and PHP.  Sintax highlighting and code completition tips are must-haves.

So, I'd like to receive some suggestions from you, guys.
Exceptions in C++ don't need to be caught (no compile time errors) by the calling function. So it's up to developer's judgment whether to catch it using try/catch (unlike in Java). 

Is there a way one can ensure that the exceptions thrown are always caught using try/catch by the calling function?

In the past few months I began my first serious JavaScript development, as I began developing XUL applications.  I use Notepad++ as my editor, but I was pretty appalled to find (as far as I can tell) that Venkman/Javascript Debugger is the tool for debugging.  It seems like a poor replacement to Visual Studio for .Net languages.

Am I missing something?  What are the best tools and best practices for JavaScript development?  Is there some killer IDE/debugger/editor combination I'm not aware of?  

It has to be easier than this, though.

I've heard some mention of Eclipse - is it a good choice here? I know very little about it.

Edit:  Some of you have pointed out Firebug - I guess my problem was that I'm not actually using JavaScript for web development for which Firebug seems to be the tool -- instead I'm using it for XUL development in xulrunner.  Which may simply be a weakness or immaturity of xulrunner.

What code analysis tools do you use on your Java projects?

I am interested in all kinds


static code analysis tools (FindBugs, PMD, and any others)
code coverage tools (Cobertura, Emma, and any others)
any other instrumentation-based tools 
anything else, if I'm missing something


If applicable, also state what build tools you use and how well these tools integrate with both your IDEs and build tools. 

If a tool is only available a specific way (as an IDE plugin, or, say, a build tool plugin) that information is also worth noting.

I'm thinking of trying Beautiful Soup, a Python package for HTML scraping. Are there any other HTML scraping packages I should be looking at? Python is not a requirement, I'm actually interested in hearing about other languages as well.

The story so far:


Python


Beautiful Soup
lxml
HTQL
Scrapy
Mechanize

Ruby


Nokogiri
Hpricot
Mechanize
scrAPI
scRUBYt!
wombat
Watir

.NET


Html Agility Pack
WatiN

Perl


WWW::Mechanize
Web-Scraper

Java


Tag Soup
HtmlUnit
Web-Harvest
jARVEST
jsoup
Jericho HTML Parser

JavaScript


request
cheerio
artoo
node-horseman
phantomjs

PHP


htmlSQL
PHP Simple HTML DOM Parser

Most of them


Screen-Scraper



Django view points to a function, which can be a problem if you want to change only a bit of functionality. Yes, I could have million keyword arguments and even more if statements in the function, but I was thinking more of an object oriented approach.

For example, I have a page that displays a user. This page is very similar to page that displays a group, but it's still not so similar to just use another data model. Group also has members etc...

One way would be to point views to class methods and then extend that class. Has anyone tried this approach or has any other idea? 
I'm downloading a web page (tag soup HTML) with XMLHttpRequest and I want to take the output and turn it into a DOM object that I can then run XPATH queries on. How do I convert from a string into DOM object?

It appears that the general solution is to create a hidden iframe and throw the contents of the string into that. There has been talk of updating DOMParser to support text/html but as of Firefox 3.0.1 you still get an NS_ERROR_NOT_IMPLEMENTED if you try.

Is there any option besides using the hidden iframe trick? And if not, what is the best way to do the iframe trick so that your code works outside the context of any currently open tabs (so that closing tabs won't screw up code, etc)?

This is an example of why I'm looking for a solution other than the iframe hack, if I have to write all that code to have a robust solution, then I'd rather keep looking for something else.

I'm looking for a performant, reasonably robust RNG using no special hardware. It can use mathematical methods (Mersenne Twister, etc), it can "collect entropy" from the machine, whatever. On Linux/etc we have a drand48() which generates 48 random bits. I'd like a similar function/class for C++ or C# which can generate more than 32 bits of randomness and which low-order bits are equally as random as high-order bits.

It doesn't have to be cryptographically secure but it must not use or be based on the C-language rand() or .NET System.Random.

Any source code, links to source, etc. would be appreciated! Failing that, what TYPE of RNG should I be looking for?

How do I format a string to title case?

Since the WMI class Win32_OperatingSystem only includes OSArchitecture in Windows Vista, I quickly wrote up a method using the registry to try and determine whether or not the current system is a 32 or 64bit system.



It's worked out pretty well for us so far, but I'm not sure how much I like looking through the registry. Is this a pretty standard practice or is there a better method?

Edit: Wow, that code looks a lot prettier in the preview. I'll consider linking to a pastebin or something, next time.

I can do an eval("something()"); to execute the code dynamically in JavaScript. Is there a way for me to do the same thing in C#?

What I am exactly trying to do is that I have an integer variable (say i) and I have multiple properties by the names: "Property1", "Property2", "Property3", etc.
Now, I want to perform some operations on the " Property*i* " property depending on the value of i. 

This is really simple with Javascript. Is there any way to do this with C#?

I just saw a comment of suggesting J#, and it made me wonder... is there a real, beneficial use of J# over Java?  So, my feeling is that the only reason you would even consider using J# is that management has decreed that the company should jump on the Java bandwagon... and the .NET bandwagon.  If you use J#, you are effectively losing the biggest benefit of picking Java... rich cross platform support.  Sure there is Mono, but it's not as richly supported or as full featured right?  I remember hearing Forms are not fully (perhaps at all) supported.

I'm not trying to bash .NET here, I'm just saying, if you are going to go the Microsoft route, why not just use C#?  If you are going to go the Java route, why would J# enter the picture?

I'm hoping to find some real world cases here, so please especially respond if you've ACTUALLY used J# in a REAL project, and why.
An MFC application that I'm trying to migrate uses afxext.h, which causes _AFXDLL to get set, which causes this error if I set /MT:


  Please use the /MD switch for _AFXDLL builds


My research to date indicates that it is impossible to build an application for execution on Windows NT 4.0 using Visual Studio (C++, in this case) 2005.

Is this really true? Are there any workaround available?

I'm working on a website which will switch to a new style on a set date. The site's built in semantic HTML and CSS, so the change should just require a CSS reference change. I'm working with a designer who will need to be able to see how it's looking, as well as a client who will need to be able to review content updates in the current look as well as design progress on the new look.

I'm planning to use a magic querystring value and / or a javascript link in the footer which writes out a cookie to select the new CSS page. We're working in ASP.NET 3.5. Any recommendations?

I should mention that we're using IE Conditional Comments for IE8,7,and 6 support. I may create a function that does a replacement:



What is the best way to go about calling a function given a string with the function's name in a Python program.  For example, let's say that I have a module foo, and I have a string whose contents are "bar". What is the best way to go about calling foo.bar()?

I need to get the return value of the function, which is why I don't just use eval. I figured out how to do it by using eval to define a temp function that returns the result of that function call, but I'm hoping that there is a more elegant way to do this.

I realize this is a newbie question, but I'm looking for a simple solution - it seems like there should be one.

What's the best way to import a CSV file into a strongly-typed data structure?  Again simple = better.

How is it possible to make prototype methods in C#.Net?

In JavaScript, I can do the following to create a trim method for the string object:



How can I go about doing this in C#.Net?

I have a simple setter method for a property and null is not appropriate for this particular property. I have always been torn in this situation: should I throw an IllegalArgumentException, or a NullPointerException? From the javadocs, both seem appropriate. Is there some kind of an understood standard?  Or is this just one of those things that you should do whatever you prefer and both are really correct?

Is CompileAssemblyFromDom faster than CompileAssemblyFromSource?

It should be as it presumably bypasses the compiler front-end.
I'm using ColdFusion to populate a template that includes HTML lists (ul's).

Most of these aren't that long, but a few have ridiculously long lengths and could really stand to be in 2-3 columns.

Is there an HTML, ColdFusion or perhaps JavaScript (I have jQuery available) way to do this easily?  It's not worth some over-complicated heavy weight solution to save some scrolling.

I saw this in an answer to another question, in reference to shortcomings of the java spec:


  There are more shortcomings and this is a subtle topic. Check this out:


  
  Here "long" would be printed (haven't checked it myself), because the compiler choses >widening over autoboxing. Be careful when using autoboxing or don't use it at all!


Are we sure that this is actually an example of widening instead of autoboxing, or is it something else entirely?

On my initial scanning, I would agree with the statement that the output would be "long" on the basis of i being declared as a primitive and not an object.  However, if you changed 



to



the output would print "Integer"

What's really going on here?  I know nothing about the compilers/bytecode interpreters for java...

I'm wondering how to make a release build that includes all necessary dll files into the .exe so the program can be run on a non-development machine without it having to install the microsoft redistributable on the target machine.

Without doing this you get the error message that the application configuration is not correct and to reinstall.  
I want to write C/C++ programs that take input from a MIDI device. 

The MIDI device connects to my PC using a USB connector. 

I'm looking for a (C/C++ implemented) library that I can use to read the MIDI signals from the MIDI device through the USB port.

I'm happy manipulating the MIDI data once I get it, I just don't want to have to implement the code for its capture.

I'm planning on writing my code using the Bloodshed Dev-C++ IDE on Windows XP.
How would one display any add content from a "dynamic" aspx page? Currently I am working on using the System.Web.HttpResponse "Page.Response" to write a file that is stored on a web server to a web request.

This would allow people to hit a url to the type http://www.foo.com?Image=test.jpg and have the image display in their browser. So as you may know this revolves around the use of Response.ContentType.

By using 



I am able to display images of type gif/jpeg/png (all i have tested so far), bit trying to display .swf or .ico files gives me a nice little error.

using



I can get flash files to play, but then the images are messed.

So how do i easily choose the contenttype?

I am prototyping some C# 3 collection filters and came across this.
I have a collection of products:



Now if I use LINQ to filter it works as expected:



And if I use the Where extension method combined with a Lambda the filter works as well:



Question: What is the difference, and why use one over the other?

Why are pointers such a leading factor of confusion for many new, and even old, college level students in C or C++?  Are there any tools or thought processes that helped you understand how pointers work at the variable, function, and beyond level?

What are some good practice things that can be done to bring somebody to the level of, "Ah-hah, I got it," without getting them bogged down in the overall concept? Basically, drill like scenarios.

Is anyone successfully using the latest 64-bit Ganymede release of Eclipse on Windows XP or Vista 64-bit?

Currently I run the normal Eclipse 3.4 distribution on a 32bit JDK and launch  compile my apps with a 64bit JDK. Our previous experience has been that the 64bit Eclipse distro is unstable for us, so I'm curious if anyone is using it successfully.

We are using JDK 1.6.0_05.
When you subscribe to an event on an object from within a form, you are essentially handing over control of your callback method to the event source. You have no idea whether that event source will choose to trigger the event on a different thread.

The problem is that when the callback is invoked, you cannot assume that you can make update controls on your form because sometimes those controls will throw an expection if the event callback was called on a thread different than the thread the form was run on.
I have a WinForms program written on .NET 2 which hosts a webbrowser control and renders asp.net pages from a known server.

I would like to be able to drag, say, a tree node from a treeview in my winforms app into a specific location in the hosted web page and have it trigger a javascript event there.
Currently, I can implement the IDocHostUIHandler interface and getting drag\drop events on the browser control, then call Navigate("javascript:fire_event(...)") on the control to execute a script on the page. However, I want this to work only when I drop data on a specific part of the page.

One solution, I suppose, would be to bite the bullet and write a custom browser plugin in the form of an activex control, embed that in the location I want to drop to and let that implement the needed drag\drop interfaces.

Would that work?
Is there a cleaner approach? Can I take advantage of the fact that the browser control is hosted in my app and provide some further level of interaction?

I have a Prolite LED sign that I like to set up to show scrolling search queries from a apache logs and other fun statistics. The problem is, my G5 does not have a serial port, so I have to use a usb to serial dongle. It shows up as /dev/cu.usbserial and /dev/tty.usbserial . 

When i do this everything seems to be hunky-dory:



Everything also works when I use the serial port tool to talk to it.

If I run this piece of code while the above mentioned serial port tool, everthing also works. But as soon as I disconnect the tool the connection gets lost. 



So the question is, what magicks do I need to perform to start talking to the serial port without the serial port tool? Is that a permissions problem? Also, what's the difference between /dev/cu.usbserial and /dev/tty.usbserial?



Nope, no serial numbers. The thing is, the problem persists even with sudo-running the python script, and the only thing that makes it go through if I open the connection in the gui tool that I mentioned.

Given a DateTime representing a person's birthday, how do I calculate their age?  

Should you set all the objects to null (Nothing in VB.NET) once you have finished with them? 

I understand that in .NET it is essential to dispose of any instances of objects that implement the IDisposable interface to release some resources although the object can still be something after it is disposed (hence the isDisposed property in forms), so I assume it can still reside in memory or at least in part?

I also know that when an object goes out of scope it is then marked for collection ready for the next pass of the garbage collector (although this may take time).

So with this in mind will setting it to null speed up the system releasing the memory as it does not have to work out that it is no longer in scope and are they any bad side effects?

MSDN articles never do this in examples and currently I do this as I cannot 
see the harm. However I have come across a mixture of opinions so any comments are useful.

What would be the best way to fill a C# struct from a byte[] array where the data was from a C/C++ struct?  The C struct would look something like this (my C is very rusty):



And would fill something like this:



What is best way to copy OldStuff to NewStuff, if OldStuff was passed as byte[] array?

I'm currently doing something like the following, but it feels kind of clunky.



Is there better way to accomplish this?



Would using the BinaryReader class offer any performance gains over pinning the memory and using Marshal.PtrStructure?

Does anyone know of a good way to compress or decompress files and folders in C# quickly? Handling large files might be necessary.



I haven't been able to find an understandable explanation of how to actually use Python's itertools.groupby() function.  What I'm trying to do is this:


Take a list - in this case, the children of an objectified lxml element
Divide it into groups based on some criteria
Then later iterate over each of these groups separately.


I've reviewed the documentation, and the examples, but I've had trouble trying to apply them beyond a simple list of numbers. 

So, how do I use of itertools.groupby()?  Is there another technique I should be using?  Pointers to good "prerequisite" reading would also be appreciated.

I have a control that is modelled on a ComboBox. I want to render the control so that the control border looks like that of a standard Windows ComboBox. Specifically, I have followed the MSDN documentation and all the rendering of the control is correct except for rendering when the control is disabled.

Just to be clear, this is for a system with Visual Styles enabled.  Also, all parts of the control render properly except the border around a disabled control, which does not match the disabled ComboBox border colour.

I am using the VisualStyleRenderer class. MSDN suggests using the VisualStyleElement.TextBox element for the TextBox part of the ComboBox control but a standard disabled TextBox and a standard disabled ComboBox draw slightly differently (one has a light grey border, the other a light blue border).

How can I get correct rendering of the control in a disabled state?

Using SQL Server 2005, how do I split a string so I can access item x?

For example

Take the string "Hello John Smith". How can I split the string by a space and access the item at Index 1 which should return "John"?

It seems that a List object cannot be stored in a List variable in C#, and can't even be explicitly cast that way.



results in Cannot implicitly convert type System.Collections.Generic.Liststring to System.Collections.Generic.Listobject

And then...



results in Cannot convert type System.Collections.Generic.Liststring to System.Collections.Generic.Listobject

Of course, you can do it by pulling everything out of the string list and putting it back in one at a time, but it is a rather convoluted solution.

Ok, I'm a web developer, but I find myself dabbling in windows forms projects every now and then. One thing that confounds me to this day is the following.

Assume you are doing something like the following



So now we have 2 combo boxes bound to that array, and everything works fine. But when you change the value of one combo box, it changes BOTH combo boxes to the one you just selected.

Now, I know that Arrays are always passed by reference (learned that when i learned C :D), but why on earth would the combo boxes change together? I don't believe the combo box control is modifying the collection at all. 

As a work around, don't this would achieve the funcionality that is expected / desired



Let's say that we have an ARGB color:



When this is painted on top of an existing color, the colors will blend. So when it is blended with white, the resulting color is Color.FromARGB(255, 162, 133, 255);

The solution should work like this:



What is ToRGB's implementation?      

I'm looking for a robust, easy-to-use, regular expression evaluator for native C++, either platform-independent or Windows-specific.

Requirements:


Can't use Boost or ACE regex libraries (unfortunately)
Can't use .NET Regex (or any managed code)


The main requirement is that it should be standalone and open.

I'm looking for a way to delete a file which is locked by another process using C#. I suspect the method must be able to find which process is locking the file (perhaps by tracking the handles, although I'm not sure how to do this in C#) then close that process before being able to complete the file delete using File.Delete().

I plan to be storing all my config settings in my application's app.config section (using the ConfigurationManager.AppSettings class). As the user changes settings using the app's UI (clicking checkboxes, choosing radio buttons, etc.), I plan to be writing those changes out to the AppSettings. At the same time, while the program is running I plan to be accessing the AppSettings constantly from a process that will be constantly processing data. Changes to settings via the UI need to affect the data processing in real-time, which is why the process will be accessing the AppSettings constantly.

Is this a good idea with regard to performance? Using AppSettings is supposed to be "the right way" to store and access configuration settings when writing .Net apps, but I worry that this method wasn't intended for a constant load (at least in terms of settings being constantly read).

If anyone has experience with this, I would greatly appreciate the input.

Update: I should probably clarify a few points.

This is not a web application, so connecting a database to the application might be overkill simply for storing configuration settings. This is a Windows Forms application.

According to the MSDN documention, the ConfigurationManager is for storing not just application level settings, but user settings as well. (Especially important if, for instance, the application is installed as a partial-trust application.)

Update 2: I accepted lomaxx's answer because Properties does indeed look like a good solution, without having to add any additional layers to my application (such as a database). When using Properties, it already does all the caching that others suggested. This means any changes and subsequent reads are all done in memory, making it extremely fast. Properties only writes the changes to disk when you explicitly tell it to. This means I can make changes to the config settings on-the-fly at run time and then only do a final save out to disk when the program exits.

Just to verify it would actually be able to handle the load I need, I did some testing on my laptop and was able to do 750,000 reads and 7,500 writes per second using Properties. That is so far above and beyond what my application will ever even come close to needing that I feel quite safe in using Properties without impacting performance.

Does anyone have, or know of, a binary patch generation algorithm implementation in C#?

Basically, compare two files (designated old and new), and produce a patch file that can be used to upgrade the old file to have the same contents as the new file.

The implementation would have to be relatively fast, and work with huge files. It should exhibit O(n) or O(logn) runtimes.

My own algorithms tend to either be lousy (fast but produce huge patches) or slow (produce small patches but have O(n^2) runtime).

Any advice, or pointers for implementation would be nice.

Specifically, the implementation will be used to keep servers in sync for various large datafiles that we have one master server for. When the master server datafiles change, we need to update several off-site servers as well.

The most naive algorithm I have made, which only works for files that can be kept in memory, is as follows:


Grab the first four bytes from the old file, call this the key
Add those bytes to a dictionary, where key -> position, where position is the position where I grabbed those 4 bytes, 0 to begin with
Skip the first of these four bytes, grab another 4 (3 overlap, 1 one), and add to the dictionary the same way
Repeat steps 1-3 for all 4-byte blocks in the old file
From the start of the new file, grab 4 bytes, and attempt to look it up in the dictionary
If found, find the longest match if there are several, by comparing bytes from the two files
Encode a reference to that location in the old file, and skip the matched block in the new file
If not found, encode 1 byte from the new file, and skip it
Repeat steps 5-8 for the rest of the new file


This is somewhat like compression, without windowing, so it will use a lot of memory. It is, however, fairly fast, and produces quite small patches, as long as I try to make the codes output minimal.

A more memory-efficient algorithm uses windowing, but produces much bigger patch files.

There are more nuances to the above algorithm that I skipped in this post, but I can post more details if necessary. I do, however, feel that I need a different algorithm altogether, so improving on the above algorithm is probably not going to get me far enough.



Edit #1: Here is a more detailed description of the above algorithm.

First, combine the two files, so that you have one big file. Remember the cut-point between the two files.

Secondly, do that grab 4 bytes and add their position to the dictionary step for everything in the whole file.

Thirdly, from where the new file starts, do the loop with attempting to locate an existing combination of 4 bytes, and find the longest match. Make sure we only consider positions from the old file, or from earlier in the new file than we're currently at. This ensures that we can reuse material in both the old and the new file during patch application.



Edit #2: Source code to the above algorithm

You might get a warning about the certificate having some problems. I don't know how to resolve that so for the time being just accept the certificate.

The source uses lots of other types from the rest of my library so that file isn't all it takes, but that's the algorithm implementation.



@lomaxx, I have tried to find a good documentation for the algorithm used in subversion, called xdelta, but unless you already know how the algorithm works, the documents I've found fail to tell me what I need to know.

Or perhaps I'm just dense... :)

I took a quick peek on the algorithm from that site you gave, and it is unfortunately not usable. A comment from the binary diff file says:


  Finding an optimal set of differences requires quadratic time relative to the input size, so it becomes unusable very quickly.


My needs aren't optimal though, so I'm looking for a more practical solution.

Thanks for the answer though, added a bookmark to his utilities if I ever need them.

Edit #1: Note, I will look at his code to see if I can find some ideas, and I'll also send him an email later with questions, but I've read that book he references and though the solution is good for finding optimal solutions, it is impractical in use due to the time requirements.

Edit #2: I'll definitely hunt down the python xdelta implementation.

Should the folders in a solution match the namespace?

In one of my teams projects, we have a class library that has many sub-folders in the project.

Project Name and Namespace: MyCompany.Project.Section.

Within this project, there are several folders that match the namespace section:


Folder Vehicles has classes in the MyCompany.Project.Section.Vehicles namespace
Folder Clothing has classes in theMyCompany.Project.Section.Clothing namespace
etc.


Inside this same project, is another rogue folder


Folder BusinessObjects has classes in the MyCompany.Project.Section namespace


There are a few cases like this where folders are made for "organizational convenience".

My question is: What's the standard?  In class libraries do the folders usually match the namespace structure or is it a mixed bag?

CSS and Javascript files don't change very often, so I want them to be cached by the web browser. But I also want the web browser to see changes made to these files without requiring the user to clear their browser cache. Also want a solution that works well with a version control system such as Subversion.




  Some solutions I have seen involve adding a version number to the end of the file in the form of a query string.
  
  Could use the SVN revision number to automate this for you: ASP.NET Display SVN Revision Number


Can you specify how you include the Revision variable of another file? That is in the HTML file I can include the Revision number in the URL to the CSS or Javascript file.

In the Subversion book it says about Revision: "This keyword describes the last known revision in which this file changed in the repository".


  Firefox also allows pressing CTRL+R to reload everything on a particular page.


To clarify I am looking for solutions that don't require the user to do anything on their part.

I'm maintaining a .NET 1.1 application, and one of the things I've been tasked with is making sure the user doesn't see any unfriendly error notifications.

I've added handlers to Application.ThreadException and AppDomain.CurrentDomain.UnhandledException, which do get called. My problem is that the standard CLR error dialog is still displayed (before the exception handler is called).

Jeff talks about this problem on his blog here and here. But there's no solution. So what is the standard way in .NET 1.1 to handle uncaught exceptions and display a friendly dialog box?

Edit: Jeff's response was marked as the correct answer, because the link he provided has the most complete information on how to do what's required.

Using VS2008, C#, .Net 2 and Winforms how can I make a regular Button look "pressed"?
Imagine this button is an on/off switch. 
ToolStripButton has the Checked property, but the regular Button does not.
I have a little game written in C#. It uses a database as back-end. It's 
a trading card game, and I wanted to implement the function of the cards as a script.

What I mean is that I essentially have an interface, ICard, which a card class implements (public class Card056 : ICard) and which contains function that are called by the game.

Now, to make the thing maintainable/moddable, I would like to have the class for each card as source code in the database and essentially compile it on first use. So when I have to add/change a card, I'll just add it to the database and tell my application to refresh, without needing any assembly deployment (especially since we would be talking about 1 assembly per card which means hundreds of assemblies).

Is that possible? Register a class from a source file and then instantiate it, etc.



The language is C#, but extra bonus if it's possible to write the script in any .NET language.

How do you express an integer as a binary number with Python literals?

I was easily able to find the answer for hex:



and octal:



How do you use literals to express binary in Python?



Summary of Answers


Python 2.5 and earlier: can express binary using int('01010101111',2) but not with a literal.
Python 2.5 and earlier: there is no way to express binary literals.
Python 2.6 beta: You can do like so: 0b1100111 or 0B1100111.
Python 2.6 beta: will also allow 0o27 or 0O27 (second character is the letter O) to represent an octal.
Python 3.0 beta: Same as 2.6, but will no longer allow the older 027 syntax for octals.


In a C# (feel free to answer for other languages) loop, what's the difference between break and continue as a means to leave the structure of the loop, and go to the next iteration?

Example:


Getting back into a bit more .NET after a few-years of not using it full-time, and wondering what the good unit testing packages are these days.

I'm familiar with NUnit (a few years ago), and have played briefly around with IronRuby, with the goal of getting something like rspec going, but don't know much beyond that.

I realize I could google for this and call it a day but I believe I'm likely to get a better and more informed response from asking a question here :-)

Suggestions?

I don't remember whether I was dreaming or not but I seem to recall there being a function which allowed something like,



I've looked over the docs but this kind of thing doesn't fall under any obvious listed headers
I am new to C# and am doing some work in an existing application. I have a DirectX viewport that has components in it that I want to be able to position using arrow keys.

Currently I am overriding ProcessCmdKey and catching arrow input and send an OnKeyPress event. This works, but I want to be able to use modifiers(ALT+CTRL+SHIFT). As soon as I am holding a modifier and press an arrow no events are triggered that I am listening to.

Does anyone have any ideas or suggestions on where I should go with this?

No, unfortunately, and if you think about it, that information would be worthless anyway since the file could become locked the very next second (read: short timespan).

Why specifically do you need to know if the file is locked anyway? Knowing that might give us some other way of giving you good advice.

If your code would look like this:



Then between the two lines, another process could easily lock the file, giving you the same problem you were trying to avoid to begin with: exceptions.

I've worked with RedGate's profiler in the past. Did the job for me.
I've been working with JetBrains dotTrace for WinForms and Console Apps (not tested on ASP.net yet), and it works quite well:

They recently also added a "Personal License" that is significantly cheaper than the corporate one. Still, if anyone else knows some cheaper or even free ones, I'd like to hear as well :-)

ANTS Profiler. I haven't used many, but I don't really have any complaints about ANTS. The visualization is really helpful.
Don't forget nProf - a prefectly good, freeware profiler.

You can do it Asynchronously using .NET Ajax PageMethods.

See here or here. 
The Microsoft AJAX library will accomplish this. You could also create your own solution that involves using AJAX to call your own aspx (as basically) script files to run .NET functions.

I suggest the Microsoft AJAX library. Once installed and referenced, you just add a line in your page load or init:



Then you can do things like:



Then, you can call it on your page as:



The last parameter of your function call must be the javascript callback function that will be executed when the AJAX request is returned.

Well, if you don't want to do it using AJAX or any other way and just want a normal ASP.NET postback to happen, here is how you do it (without using any other libraries):

It is a little tricky though... :)

i. In your code file (assuming you are using C# and .NET 2.0 or later) add the following Interface to your Page Class to make it look like



ii. This should add (using Tab-Tab) this function to your code file:



iii. In your onclick event in Javascript write the following code:



This will call the 'RaisePostBackEvent' method in your code file with the 'eventArgument' as the 'argumentString' you passed from the Javascript. Now, you can call any other event you like.

P.S: That is 'underscore-underscore-doPostBack' ... And, there should be no space in that sequence... Somehow the WMD does not allow me to write to underscores followed by a character!

SetForegroundWindow is supposed to steal focus and there are certain cases where it will fail.

The SetForegroundWindow function puts the thread that created the specified window into the foreground and activates the window. Keyboard input is directed to the window
Try capturing the focus with SetCapture prior to making the call. Also look into different ways of bringing the window to the front: SetForeGroundWindow, SetActiveWindow, even simulating a mouse click can do this.
You can try the BringWindowToTop function to not steal focus. I haven't used it, but it seems to be what you're looking for.

  What is the difference between SetForeGroundWindow, SetActiveWindow, and BringWindowToTop? It appears as if they all do the same thing.


According to MSDN, SetForeGroundWindow will activate the window and direct keyboard focus to it. This attempts to work even when your process is in the background. SetActiveWindow does the same thing as SetForeGroundWindow, but it doesn't do anything if your application isn't the frontmost application. Finally, BringWindowToTop only brings the window to the top, and doesn't change the keyboard focus.
If you're using ASP.NET 2.0, you can do this with cross-page posting.
Edit: I missed the fact that you're asking about an external page. For that I think you'd need to have your ASP.NET page gen up an HTML form whose action is set to the remote URL and method is set to POST. (Using cross-page posting, this could even be a different page with no UI, only hidden form elements.) Then add a bit of javascript to submit the form as soon as the postback result was received on the client.
I have done this by rendering a form that auto-posts (using JavaScript) to the desired remote URL - gather whatever information you need for the post in the web form's postback and then build the HTML for the remote-posting form and render it back to the client.

I built a utility class for this that contains the remote URL and a collection of name/value pairs for the form.

Cross-page posting will work if you own both of the pages involved, but not if you need to post to another site (PayPal, for example).
Here's I solved this problem today.  I started from this article on C# Corner, but found the example - while technically sound - a little incomplete.  Everything he said was right, but I needed to hit a few external sites to piece this together to work exactly as I wanted.

It didn't help that the user was not technically submitting a form at all; they were clicking a link to go to our support center, but to log them in an http post had to be made to the support center's site.

This solution involves using HttpContext.Current.Response.Write() to write the data for the form, then using a bit of Javascript on the 



method to submit the form to the proper URL.

When the user clicks on the Support Center link, the following method is called to write the response and redirect the user:



The key to this method is in that onload bit of Javascript, which , when the body of the page loads, submits the form and then redirects the user back to my own Home page.  The reason for that bit of hoodoo is that I'm launching the external site in a new window, but don't want the user to resubmit the hidden form if they refresh the page.  Plus that hidden form pushed the page down a few pixels which got on my nerves.

I'd be very interested in any cleaner ideas anyone has on this one.

Eric Sipple
I would do the form post in your code behind using HttpWebRequest class. Here is a good helper class to get your started:

From there, you can just do a Response.Redirect, or perhaps you need to vary your action based on the outcome of the post (if there was an error, display it to the user or whatever). I think you already had the answer in your question to be honest - sounds like you think it is a post OR redirect when in reality you can do them both from your code behind.
Well, IE has a somewhat non-standard object model; what you're doing shouldn't work but you're getting away with it because IE is being nice to you. In Firefox and Safari, document.frm in your code evaluates to undefined.

You need to be using id values on your form elements and use document.getElementById('whatever') to return a reference to them instead of referring to non-existent properties of the document object.

So this works a bit better and may do what you're after:



But you might want to check out this excellent book if you want to learn more about the right way of going about things: DOM Scripting by Jeremy Keith

Also while we're on the subject, Bulletproof Ajax by the same author is also deserving of a place on your bookshelf as is JavaScript: The Good Parts by Doug Crockford

Why not grab one of the AJAX scripting libraries, they abstract away a lot of the cross browser DOM scripting black magic and make life a hell of a lot easier.
I don't have any experience with http://www.SiteGround.com as a web host personally.  

This is just a guess, but it's common for a shared host to support Python and MySQL with the MySQLdb module (e.g., GoDaddy does this).  Try the following CGI script to see if MySQLdb is installed.


I uploaded it and got an internal error



After much playing around, I found that if I had



It would give me a much more useful answer and say that it was not installed, you can see it yourself -> http://woarl.com/db.py

Oddly enough, this would produce an error



I looked at some of the other files I had up there and it seems that library was one of the ones I had already tried.
MySQLdb is what I have used before.

If you host is using Python version 2.5 or higher, support for sqlite3 databases is built in (sqlite allows you to have a relational database that is simply a file in your filesystem).  But buyer beware, sqlite is not suited for production, so it may depend what you are trying to do with it.

Another option may be to call your host and complain, or change hosts.  Honestly these days, any self respecting web host that supports python and mysql ought to have MySQLdb pre installed.
I really like regular expressions. As long as the command strings are fairly simple, you can write a few regexes that could take a few pages of code to manually parse.

I would suggest you check out http://www.regular-expressions.info for a good intro to regexes, as well as specific examples for Java.

A simple string tokenizer on spaces should work, but there are really many ways you could do this.

Here is an example using a tokenizer:



Then tokens can be further used for the arguments.  This all assumes no spaces are used in the arguments... so you might want to roll your own simple parsing mechanism (like getting the first whitespace and using text before as the action, or using a regular expression if you don't mind the speed hit), just abstract it out so it can be used anywhere.
I would look at Java migrations of Zork, and lean towards a simple Natural Language Processor (driven either by tokenizing or regex) such as the following (from this link):

    public static boolean simpleNLP( String inputline, String keywords[])
    {
        int i;
        int maxToken = keywords.length;
        int to,from;
        if( inputline.length()  1) return false;

        Vector lexed  = new Vector();  // stores the words
        // first extract every substring in inputline that has a blank on either side.

        from = 0;
        to = 0;
        while( inputline.charAt(from) == ' '  from  inputline.length() ) from ++;  // skip ' '
        if( from = inputline.length()) return false; // check for blank and empty lines
        while( to =0 )
        {
            to = inputline.indexOf(' ',from);
            if( to  0){
                lexed.addElement(inputline.substring(from,to));
                from = to;
                while( inputline.charAt(from) == ' '
                 from  inputline.length()-1 ) from ++;
            }else{
                lexed.addElement( inputline.substring(from));
            }
        }
        //
        // if we get here we have a vector of strings that correspond to the words in the input.
        //
        // so now we look for matches in order
        boolean status =false;
        to = 0;
        for( i=0; i lexed.size(); i++)
        {
            String s = (String)lexed.elementAt(i);
            if( s.equalsIgnoreCase( keywords[to]) )
            {
                to++;
                if( to = keywords.length) { status = true; break;}
            }
        }
        return status;
    }


...

Anything which gives a programmer a reason to look at Zork again is good in my book, just watch out for Grues.

...
I assume you're trying to make the command interface as forgiving as possible. If this is the case, I suggest you use an algorithm similar to this:


Read in the string
Split the string into tokens
Use a dictionary to convert synonyms to a common form 
For example, convert "hit", "punch", "strike", and "kick" all to "hit"
Perform actions on an unordered, inclusive base
Unordered - "punch the monkey in the face" is the same thing as "the face in the monkey punch"
Inclusive - If the command is supposed to be "punch the monkey in the face" and they supply "punch monkey", you should check how many commands this matches. If only one command, do this action. It might even be a good idea to have command priorities, and even if there were even matches, it would perform the top action.

@CodingTheWheel Heres your code, a bit clean up and through eclipse (ctrl+shift+f) and the inserted back here :)

Including the four spaces in front each line.



When the separator String for the command is allways the same String or char (like the ";") y recomend you use the StrinkTokenizer class:

StringTokenizer

but when the separator varies or is complex y recomend you to use the regular expresions, wich can be used by the String class itself, method split, since 1.4. It uses the Pattern class from the java.util.regex package

Pattern
Sun itself recommends staying away from StringTokenizer and using the String.spilt method instead. 

You'll also want to look at the Pattern class. 
Note: This answer is sort of outdated (from 2008). Please use the solution below with care!!



Here is a page that details the problem and a solution (search the page for the text Wrapping sys.stdout into an instance):

PrintFails - Python Wiki

Here's a code excerpt from that page:



There's some more information on that page, well worth a read.

Build a time machine and go back to 1987? Ho ho.

Ok, no more snarky comments.


  How do I figure out what the configuration settings (e.g. baud rate) should be...


Read the datasheet? Ok, ok. Seriously, last one. If you don't know the baud rate of the device you are trying to communicate with, you have two choices. Start guessing, or possibly bust out an o-scope. If you need a good starting point, let me suggest 9600-8-N-1. My suspicion is you can get there with brute force relatively quickly. There's a third option of having an old-school ninja who can tell just by the LOOK of the garbled characters at some standard baud rate what actual baud rate is. An impressive party trick to be sure.

Hopefully though you have access to this information. In unix/linux, you can get ahold of minicom to play with the serial port directly. This should make it fairly quick to get the configuration figured out.


  one of the major Unix shells


In Unix the serial port(s) is/are file-mapped into the /dev/ subdir. ttyS0, for example. If you setup the correct baud rate and whatnot using minicom, you can even cat stuff to that file to send stuff out there.

On to the meat of the question, you can access it programmatically through the POSIX headers. termios.h is the big one. 

See: http://www.easysw.com/~mike/serial/serial.html#3_1
(NOT AVAILABLE ANYMORE)


  but I also have some interest in serial programming using Windows/Hyperterminal.


Hyperterminal and minicom are basically the same program. As for how Windows let's you get access to the serial port, I'll leave that question for someone else. I haven't done that in Windows since the Win95 days.

From the other side, if you want to do it using C#, which will run on both Windows and Linux--with some limitations (EDIT: which may be out of date. I have no way to test it.). Just create a SerialPort object, set its baudrate, port and any other odd settings, call open on it, and write out your byte[]s. After all the setup, the SerialPort object acts very similar to any networked stream, so it should be easy enough to figure out.

And as ibrandy states, you need to know all these settings, like baud rate, before you even start attempting to communicate to any serial device. 
At work we use teraterm and realterm for checking serial data is correctly formatted. Also we have a hardware splitter with a switch so we can monitor traffic to our application via a cable back to another port.

Windows allows you access to the serial port via CreateFile. That gives you a handle and from there you can configure access.
From Java the rxtx (NOT AVAILABLE ANYMORE)library is quite good. It picks up where Sun's serial IO framework left off. 

There are two main ways of running Python on Apache. The simplest would be to use CGI and write normal Python scripts while the second is using a web framework like Django or Pylons.

Using CGI is straightforward. Make sure your Apache config file has a cgi-bin set up. If not, follow their documentation (http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.0/howto/cgi.html). At that point all you need to do is place your Python scripts in the cgi-bin directory and the standard output will become the HTTP response. Refer to Python's documentation for further info (https://docs.python.org/library/cgi.html).

If you want to use a web framework you'll need to setup mod_python or FastCGI. These steps are dependent on which framework you want to use. Django provides clear instructions on how to setup mod_python and Django with Apache (http://www.djangoproject.com/documentation/modpython/)

Yes, mod_python is pretty confusing to set up.  Here's how I did it.

In httpd.conf:



and in your application directory:



Repeat the configuration for each python program you wish to have running under mod_python.
Are you running Python on UNIX or Windows?

An alternative to mod_python and FastCGI is mod_wsgi. You can find out more at modwsgi

I have built and installed this on Solaris without problems. I had previously tried mod_python but ran into problems with shared libraries as part of the build. There are good install docs available.

Thxm, Mc! http://asm.objectweb.org/ is another one. Excellent documentation on byte code instrumentation, but nothing "directly" aimed at writing a coverage tool - just some hints or ideas.
Absolutely.  When nobody knows the low level, who will update and write the high level languages?  Also, when you understand the low level stuff, you can write more efficient code in a higher level language, and also debug more efficiently.

Learning C or a lower level language can definitely be useful. However, I don't see any obvious advantage in using the unmanaged WinAPI.
I've seen low level Windows API code... it ain't pretty... I wish I could unlearn it.  I think it benefits to learn low level as in C, as you gain a better understanding of the hardware architecture and how all that stuff works.  Learning old Windows API... I think that stuff can be left to the people at Microsoft who may need to learn it to build higher level languages and API... they built it, let them suffer with it ;-)

However, if you happen to find a situation where you feel you just can't do what you need to do in a higher level language (few and far between), then perhaps start the dangerous dive into that world.
The native APIs are the "real" operating system APIs. The .NET library is (with few exceptions) nothing more than a fancy wrapper around them. So yes, I'd say that anybody who can understand .NET with all its complexity, can understand relatively mundane things like talking to the API without the benefit of a middle-man.
Just try to do DLL Injection from managed code. It can't be done. You will be forced to write native code for this, for windowing tweaks, for real subclassing, and a dozen other things.
So yes: you should (must) know both.
Edit: even if you plan to use P/Invoke.
This question is bordering on religious :) But I'll give my thoughts anyway.

I do see value in learing the Win32 API. Most, if not all, GUI libraries (managed or unmanaged) result in calls to the Win32 API. Even the most thorough libraries don't cover 100% of the API, and hence there are always gaps which need to be plugged by direct API calls or P/invoking. Some of the names of the wrappers around the API calls have similar names to the underlying API calls, but those names aren't exactly self-documenting. So understanding the underlying API, and the terminology used therein, will aid in understanding the wrapper APIs and what they actually do.

Plus, if you understand the nature of the underlying APIs that are used by frameworks, then you will make better choices with regards to which library functionality you should use in a given scenario.

Cheers!
Analogy: If you build cars for a living (programming), then its very pertinent to know how the engine works (Win32).
Simple answer, YES.
Learning a new programming language or technology is for one of three reasons:
1. Need: you're starting a project for building a web application and you don't know anything about ASP.NET
2. Enthusiasm: you're very excited about ASP.NET MVC. why not try that?
3. Free time: but who has that anyway.

The best reason to learn something new is Need. If you need to do something that the .NET framework can't do (like performance for example) then WinAPI is your solution. Until then we keep ourself busy with learning about .NET
It's important to know what is available with the Windows API.  I don't think you need to crank out code with it, but you should know how it works.  The .NET Framework contains a lot of functionality, but it doesn't provide managed code equivalents for the entire Windows API.  Sometimes you have to get a bit closer to the metal, and knowing what's down there and how it behaves will give you  a better understanding of how to use it.
For most needs on the desktop you wont need to know the Win32, however there is a LOT of Win32 not in .NET, but it is in the outlaying stuff that may end up being less than 1% of your application.

USB support, HID support, Windows Media Foundation just off the top of my head. There are many cool Vista API's only available from Win32.

You will do yourself a large favor by learning how to do interop with a Win32 API, if you do desktop programing, because when you do need to call Win32, and you will, you won't spend weeks scratching your head.
You could always do this:



But I wouldn't recommend it. There's no guarantee that the last inserted key will be at the end of the array. The ordering for Keys on MSDN is unspecified, and subject to change. In my very brief test, it does seem to be in order of insertion, but you'd be better off building in proper bookkeeping like a stack--as you suggest (though I don't see the need of a struct based on your other statements)--or single variable cache if you just need to know the latest key.
I don't know if this would work because I'm pretty sure that the keys aren't stored in the order they are added, but you could cast the KeysCollection to a List and then get the last key in the list... but it would be worth having a look.

The only other thing I can think of is to store the keys in a lookup list and add the keys to the list before you add them to the dictionary... it's not pretty tho.
I think you can do something like this, the syntax might be wrong, havent used C# in a while
To get the last item



or use Max instead of Last to get the max value, I dont know which one fits your code better.
I agree with the second part of Patrick's answer. Even if in some tests it seems to keep insertion order, the documentation (and normal behavior for dictionaries and hashes) explicitly states the ordering is unspecified.

You're just asking for trouble depending on the ordering of the keys. Add your own bookkeeping (as Patrick said, just a single variable for the last added key) to be sure. Also, don't be tempted by all the methods such as Last and Max on the dictionary as those are probably in relation to the key comparator (I'm not sure about that).

The way you worded the question leads me to believe that the int in the Dictionary contains the item's "position" on the Dictionary. Judging from the assertion that the keys aren't stored in the order that they're added, if this is correct, that would mean that keys.Count (or .Count - 1, if you're using zero-based) should still always be the number of the last-entered key?
If that's correct, is there any reason you can't instead use Dictionaryint, string so that you can use mydict[ mydict.Keys.Count ]?
Why don't you just extend the dictionary class to add in a last key inserted property. Something like the following maybe?



You can use an OrderedDictionary.


  Represents a collection of key/value
  pairs that are accessible by the key
  or index.

I know that if you use a paging repeater or gridview with the linqdatasource it will automatically optimize the number of results returned, but I'm also pretty sure in the datasource wizard you can go to advanced options and limit it to 



which should allow you to do what you need

For C++, a map works well.  Several million objects won't be a problem.  10 million items took about 4.4 seconds and about 57 meg on my computer.



For multiple variables:

The easiest way is to make the index a string, and then make the index strings look like "23,55" (2 vars) or "34,45,56" (3 vars):



Hash tables have a fast insertion and look up. You could write a simple hash function since you know you'd be dealing with only integer pairs as the keys.
For multiple variables:

The easiest way is to make the index a string, and then make the index strings look like "23,55" (2 vars) or "34,45,56" (3 vars):



The best way to implement sparse matrices is to not to implement them - atleast not on your own. I would suggest to BLAS (which I think is a part of LAPACK) which can handle really huge matrices.
I've had no trouble using the BSD sockets API in C++, in GNU/Linux. Here's the sample program I used:



So my take on this is that z/OS is probably the complicating factor here, however, because I've never used z/OS before, much less programmed in it, I can't say this definitively. :-P
Sure I can post a test app.



Compile/Link Output:

cxx -Wc,xplink -Wl,xplink -o inet_test inet.C

"./inet.C", line 5.16: CCN5274 (S) The name lookup for "AF_INET" did not find a declaration.

CCN0797(I) Compilation failed for file ./inet.C. Object file not created.

A check of sys/sockets.h does include the definition I need, and as far as I can tell, it is not being blocked by any #ifdef statements.

I have however noticed it contains a the following:



which encapsulates basically the whole file. Not sure if it matters.
@Jax: The extern "C" thing matters, very very much. If a header file doesn't have one, then (unless it's a C++-only header file), you would have to enclose your #include with it:



Basically, anytime where a C++ program wants to link to C-based facilities, the extern "C" is vital. In practical terms, it means that the names used in external references will not be mangled, like normal C++ names would. Reference.
You can add a mouse click event to the TreeView, then select the correct node using GetNodeAt given the mouse coordinates provided by the MouseEventArgs.



If you want the context menu to be dependent on the selected item you're best move I think is to use Jonesinator's code to select the clicked item. Your context menu content can then be dependent on the selected item.

Selecting the item first as opposed to just using it for the context menu gives a few advantages. The first is that the user has a visual indication as to which he clicked and thus which item the menu is associated with. The second is that this way it's a hell of a lot easier to keep compatible with other methods of invoking the context menu (e.g. keyboard shortcuts).
for C# 3.5

without notifyicon therefore you will need to terminate this application in task manager manually


Something like this should work (though, you will want to change the interval).



Boy, that's a pretty general question.  I'll do my best, but be prepared to see me miss by a mile.

Assumptions


You are using ASP.NET, not plain ASP
You don't really want to test your web pages, but the logic behind them. Unit testing the actual .ASPX pages is rather painful, but there are frameworks out there to do it.  NUnitAsp is one.


The first thing to do is to organize (or plan) your code so that it can be tested.  The two most popular design patterns for this at the time seem to be MVP and MVC.  Both separate the logic of the application away from the view so that you can test the logic without the view (web pages) getting in your way.

Either MVP or MVC will be effective.  MVC has the advantage of having a Microsoft framework almost ready to go.  

Once you've selected a framework pattern that encourages testability, you need to use a unit testing tool.  NUnit is a good starting point.  Visual Studio Professional has a testing suite built it, but NUnit + TestDrive.NET also works in the IDE.

That's sort of a shotgun blast of information.  I hope some if it hits.  The Pragmatic Bookshelf has a good book covering the topic.
There was a screencast series a year or so ago on Polymorphic Podcast that did a pretty good intro walkthrough of an MVP implementation in ASP.NET. Implemented this way, unit tests fall into place much more naturally.

The former will throw an exception if the source type can't be cast to the target type. The latter will result in sc2 being a null reference, but no exception.

[Edit]

My original answer is certainly the most pronounced difference, but as Eric Lippert points out, it's not the only one. Other differences include:


You can't use the 'as' operator to cast to a type that doesn't accept 'null' as a value
You can't use 'as' to convert things, like numbers to a different representation (float to int, for example).


And finally, using 'as' vs. the cast operator, you're also saying "I'm not sure if this will succeed." 

The parenthetical cast throws an exception if the cast attempt fails. The "as" cast returns null if the cast attempt fails.
They'll throw different exceptions. 
() : NullReferenceException 
as : InvalidCastException 
Which could help for debugging.

The "as" keyword attempts to cast the object and if the cast fails, null is returned silently. The () cast operator will throw an exception immediately if the cast fails.

"Only use the C# "as" keyword where you are expecting the cast to fail in a non-exceptional case. If you are counting on a cast to succeed and are unprepared to receive any object that would fail, you should use the () cast operator so that an appropriate and helpful exception is thrown."

For code examples and a further explanation: http://blog.nerdbank.net/2008/06/when-not-to-use-c-keyword.html
Also note that you can only use the as keyword with a reference type or a nullable type

ie:



will not compile



will compile.
Here is a good way to remember the process that each of them follow that I use when trying to decide which is better for my circumstance.



and the next should be easy to guess what it does



in the first case if the value cannot be cast than an exception is thrown in the second case if the value cannot be cast, i is set to null.  

So in the first case a hard stop is made if the cast fails in the second cast a soft stop is made and you might encounter a NullReferenceException later on.
It's like the difference between Parse and TryParse. You use TryParse when you expect it might fail, but when you have strong assurance it won't fail you use Parse.
Looking around, and using some C# 3.0 features we can do this:



This is the cleanest way I've seen and is similar to the Ruby way of handling hashes.

On a high level, you have no other choice then to walk through the whole Dictionary and look at each value.

Maybe this helps:
Copy/Pasting from John Timney:





Since you're targeting .net 2.0 or above, you can simplify this into lambda syntax -- it's equivalent but shorter. If you're targeting .net 2.0 you can only use this syntax if you're using the compiler from vs2008 (or above).



Why not use LINQ:



This would also allow for great flexibility in that you can select the top 10, 20 10% etc. Or if you are using your word frequency index for type-ahead, you could also include StartsWith clause as well.

Not all languages have the concept of unsigned ints. For example VB 6 had no concept of unsigned ints which I suspect drove the decision of the designers of VB7/7.1 not to implement as well (it's implemented now in VB8).

To quote:


  http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/12a7a7h3.aspx
  
  The CLS was designed to be large enough to include the language
  constructs that are commonly needed by developers, yet small enough
  that most languages are able to support it. In addition, any language
  construct that makes it impossible to rapidly verify the type safety
  of code was excluded from the CLS so that all CLS-compliant languages
  can produce verifiable code if they choose to do so.


Update: I did wonder about this some years back, and whilst I can't see why a UInt wouldn't be type safety verifiable, I guess the CLS guys had to have a cut off point somewhere as to what would be the baseline minimum number of value types supported. Also when you think about the longer term where more and more languages are being ported to the CLR why force them to implement unsigned ints to gain CLS compliance if there is absolutely no concept, ever?

Unsigned integers are not CLS compliant because they're not interoperable between certain languages.
An explicit cast to double isn't necessary.



Identifying the constant as 5000.0 (or as 5000d) is sufficient:



It sounds like this.Opacity is a double value, and the compiler doesn't like you trying to cram a decimal value into it.

A more generic answer for the generic question "Decimal vs Double?": Decimal for monetary calculations to preserve the precision, Double for scientific calculations that do not get affected by small differences. Since Double is a type which is native to the CPU (internal representation is stored in base 2), calculations made with Double perform better then Decimal (which is represented in base 10 internally).

In my opinion, it is desirable to be as explicit as possible. This adds clarity to the code and aids your fellow programmers who may eventually read it.

In addition to (or instead of) appending a .0 to the number, you can use decimal.ToDouble().  

Here are some examples:



Very roughly and from memory since I don't have code on this laptop:



@Goyuix -- that's excellent for something written from memory.
tested it here -- found the connection wasn't opened. Otherwise very nice.



That's definitely a good way to do it.  But you if you happen to be using a database that supports LINQ to SQL, it can be a lot more fun.  It can look something like this:


This is an alternative way (DataReader is faster than this one):


I haven't done SWING development since my early CS classes but if it wasn't built in you could just inherit javax.swing.AbstractButton and create your own. Should be pretty simple to wire something together with their existing framework.
You could always try the Synth look  feel. You provide an xml file that acts as a sort of stylesheet, along with any images you want to use. The code might look like this:



From there, go on and add your JButton like you normally would. The only change is that you use the setName(string) method to identify what the button should map to in the xml file.

The xml file might look like this:



The bind element there specifies what to map to (in this example, it will apply that styling to any buttons whose name property has been set to "dirt").

And a couple of useful links:


Yes, this is possible. One of the main pros for using Swing is the ease with which the abstract controls can be created and manipulates.

Here is a quick and dirty way to extend the existing JButton class to draw a circle to the right of the text.



Note that by overriding paintComponent that the contents of the button can be changed, but that the border is painted by the paintBorder method. The getPreferredSize method also needs to be managed in order to dynamically support changes to the content. Care needs to be taken when measuring font metrics and image dimensions.

For creating a control that you can rely on, the above code is not the correct approach. Dimensions and colours are dynamic in Swing and are dependent on the look and feel being used. Even the default Metal look has changed across JRE versions. It would be better to implement AbstractButton and conform to the guidelines set out by the Swing API. A good starting point is to look at the javax.swing.LookAndFeel and javax.swing.UIManager classes.

Understanding the anatomy of LookAndFeel is useful for writing controls:
Creating a Custom Look and Feel

When I was first learning Java we had to make Yahtzee and I thought it would be cool to create custom Swing components and containers instead of just drawing everything on one JPanel.  The benefit of extending Swing components, of course, is to have the ability to add support for keyboard shortcuts and other accessibility features that you can't do just by having a paint() method print a pretty picture.  It may not be done the best way however, but it may be a good starting point for you.

Edit 8/6 - If it wasn't apparent from the images, each Die is a button you can click. This will move it to the DiceContainer below.  Looking at the source code you can see that each Die button is drawn dynamically, based on its value.





Here are the basic steps:


Create a class that extends JComponent
Call parent constructor super() in your constructors
Make sure you class implements MouseListener
Put this in the constructor:


Override these methods:


Override this method:




The amount of space you have to work with when drawing your button is defined by getPreferredSize(), assuming getMinimumSize() and getMaximumSize() return the same value.  I haven't experimented too much with this but, depending on the layout you use for your GUI your button could look completely different.

And finally, the source code.  In case I missed anything.  

Does doubling the \ work?


Partially. The text is inserted, but the warning is still generated.

I found a discussion that indicated the text needed to be preceded with 'E', as such:



This suppressed the warning, but the text was still not being returned correctly. When I added the additional slash as Michael suggested, it worked.

As such:



Cool.

I also found the documentation regarding the E:

  PostgreSQL also accepts "escape" string constants, which are an extension to the SQL standard. An escape string constant is specified by writing the letter E (upper or lower case) just before the opening single quote, e.g. E'foo'. (When continuing an escape string constant across lines, write E only before the first opening quote.) Within an escape string, a backslash character (\) begins a C-like backslash escape sequence, in which the combination of backslash and following character(s) represents a special byte value. \b is a backspace, \f is a form feed, \n is a newline, \r is a carriage return, \t is a tab. Also supported are \digits, where digits represents an octal byte value, and \xhexdigits, where hexdigits represents a hexadecimal byte value. (It is your responsibility that the byte sequences you create are valid characters in the server character set encoding.) Any other character following a backslash is taken literally. Thus, to include a backslash character, write two backslashes (\\). Also, a single quote can be included in an escape string by writing \', in addition to the normal way of ''.

Without trying to sound too vague but I think Windows Network Load Balancing (NLB) should handle this for you.
Off the top of my head, I would think that you'd need to maintain some form of a data structure in the JavaScript that reflects the items in the current dropdown list. You'd also need a reference to the currently active/selected item. 

Each time keyup or keydown is fired, update the reference to the active/selected item in the data structure. To provide highlighting information on the UI, add or remove a class name that is styled via CSS based on if the item is active/selected or not.

Also, this isn't a biggy, but innerHTML is not really standard (look into createTextNode(), createElement(), and appendChild() for standard ways of creating data). You may also want to see about attaching event handlers in the JavaScript rather than doing so in an HTML attribute.

A few things:

You are creating (and not using) an unnecessary toplevel window, named window.  You can just delete these lines:



Also, the flow doesn't seem quite right.  gtk_main() starts the GTK main loop, which blocks until something exits it.  gtk_dialog_run() also starts a main loop, but it exits as soon as one of the buttons is clicked.

I think it might be enough for you to remove the gtk_init_add() and gtk_main() calls, and simply deal with the return value.  Also the gtk_widget_destroy() call is unnecessary, as the dialog window is automatically destroyed when gtk_dialog_run() returns.
Hmm, ok.  I'd suggest code like this, then:



The struct is because you need to pass around a couple pieces of data.  The gtk_idle_add() call adds a method to be run when the main loop is running and idle, and the FALSE return value from the display_dialog() call means that it's only run once.  After we get the result from the dialog, we quit the main loop.  That'll cause the gtk_main() in your main MessageBox() method to return, and you'll be able to access the result from there.

Hope this helps!
This may be too basic or limited of a solution, but couldn't you do a String.split() on each line of the file, remembering the result array of the first line to generate the XML, and just spit each line's array data out with the proper XML elements padding each iteration of a loop?

Maybe this might help: JSefa

You can read CSV file with this tool and serialize it to XML.

I don't understand why you would want to do this. It sounds almost like cargo cult coding.

Converting a CSV file to XML doesn't add any value. Your program is already reading the CSV file, so arguing that you need XML doesn't work.

On the other hand, reading the CSV file, doing something with the values, and then serializing to XML does make sense (well, as much as using XML can make sense... ;)) but you would supposedly already have a means of serializing to XML.
As far as I know, there's no ready-made library to do this for you, but producing a tool capable of translating from CSV to XML should only require you to write a crude CSV parser and hook up JDOM (or your XML Java library of choice) with some glue code.

There is nothing I know of that can do this without you at least writing a little bit of code... You will need 2 separate library:


A CSV Parser Framework 
An XML Serialization Framework


The CSV parser I would recommend (unless you want to have a little bit of fun to write your own CSV Parser) is OpenCSV (A SourceForge Project for parsing CSV Data)

The XML Serialization Framework should be something that can scale in case you want to transform large (or huge) CSV file to XML: My recommendation is the Sun Java Streaming XML Parser Framework (See here) which allows pull-parsing AND serialization.

IE 8 is supposed to have better tools, but the IE Developer Toolbar is pretty good.

You might find Firebug Lite useful for that.  

Its bookmarklet should be especially useful when debugging on a user's machine.
This has religious war potential, but it seems to me that if you're using a getter/setter, you should use it internally as well - using both will lead to maintenance problems down the road (e.g. somebody adds code to a setter that needs to run every time that property is set, and the property is being set internally w/o that setter being called).
It depends on how the property is used. For example, say you have a student object that has a name property. You could use your Get method to pull the name from the database, if it hasn't been retrieved already. This way you are reducing unnecessary calls to the database.

Now let's say you have a private integer counter in your object that counts the number of times the name has been called. You may want to not use the Get method from inside the object because it would produce an invalid count.

  Am I just going overboard here?


Perhaps ;)

Another approach would be to utilize a private/protected method to actually do the getting (caching/db/etc), and a public wrapper for it that increments the count:

PHP:



and then from within the object itself:

PHP:



This way you can still use that first argument for something else (like sending a flag for whether or not to used cached data here perhaps). 
Well, it seems with C# 3.0 properties' default implementation, the decision is taken for you; you HAVE to set the property using the (possibly private) property setter.
I personally only use the private member-behind when not doing so would cause the object to fall in an less than desirable state, such as when initializing or when caching/lazy loading is involved.
As stated in some of the comments: Sometimes you should, sometimes you shouldn't. The great part about private variables is that you are able to see all the places they are used when you change something. If your getter/setter does something you need, use it. If it doesn't matter you decide.

The opposite case could be made that if you use the getter/setter and somebody changes the getter/setter they have to analyze all the places the getter and setter is used internally to see if it messes something up. 
Personally, I feel like it's important to remain consistent.  If you have getters and setters, use them.  The only time I would access a field directly is when the accessor has a lot of overhead.  It may feel like you're bloating your code unnecessarily, but it can certainly save a whole lot of headache in the future.  The classic example:

Later on, you may desire to change the way that field works.  Maybe it should be calculated on-the-fly or maybe you would like to use a different type for the backing store.  If you are accessing properties directly, a change like that can break an awful lot of code in one swell foop.
i can be wrong because i'm autodidact, but i NEVER user public properties in my Java clases, they are allways private or protected, so that outside code must access by getters/setters. it's better for mainteance / modification purposes. And for inside class code... if getter method is trivial i use the property directly, but i allways use the setter methods because i could easily add code to fire events if i wish
Doesn't this depend on the hardware as well as number of threads and stuff?

I would make a simple test and run it with increasing amounts of threads hammering and see what seems best.
It depends on what kind of application you are building. Create a representative test scenario, and start hammering away. Then you will know the definitive answer.

Besides your use case, it also depends on CPU, memory, front-side bus, operating system, cache settings, etcetera.

Seriously, just test your own scenario.

If you need some numbers (that actually may mean nothing in your scenario):


Oracle Berkeley DB: 
Performance Metrics and 
Benchmarks
Performance Metrics 
 Benchmarks: 
Berkeley DB

What I did when working against a database of unknown performance was to measure turnaround time on my queries.  I kept upping the thread count until turn-around time dropped, and dropping the thread count until turn-around time improved (well, it was processes in my environment, but whatever).  

There were moving averages and all sorts of metrics involved, but the take-away lesson was: just adapt to how things are working at the moment.  You never know when the DBAs will improve performance or hardware will be upgraded, or perhaps another process will come along to load down the system while you're running.  So adapt.

Oh, and another thing: avoid process switches if you can - batch things up.



Oh, I should make this clear: this all happened at run time, not during development.

The problem is that the Distinct
 operator does not grant that it will
 maintain the original order of
 values.

So your query will need to work like this



Try the following



this should work for what you need.

ActiveMQ works well with C# using the Spring.NET integrations and NMS. A post with some links to get you started in that direction is here. Also consider using MSMQ (The System.Messaging namespace) or a .NET based asynchronous messaging solution, with some options here.
Sorry if this isn't what you are asking for...
Have you considered some sort of cache behind the scenes that acts a bit like the "bucket system" when using asynchronous sockets in c/c++ using winsock?  Basicly, it works by accepting requests, and sends an immediate response back to the web app, and when it finally gets around to finding your record, it updates it on the app via AJAX or any other technology of your choice.  Since I'm not a C# programmer I can't provide any specific example.  Hope this helps!
You tried old builds, but is there a reason you can't keep going further back in the repository history and seeing exactly when the bug was introduced?

Otherwise, I would suggest adding simple logging of some kind to help track down the problem, though I am at a loss of what specifically you might want to log.

If you can find out what exactly CAN cause this problem, via google and documentation of the exceptions you are getting, maybe that will give further insight on what to look for in the code.
My first choice would be a dedicated heap tool such as pageheap.exe.

Rewriting new and delete might be useful, but that doesn't catch the allocs committed by lower-level code. If this is what you want, better to Detour the low-level alloc APIs using Microsoft Detours.

Also sanity checks such as: verify your run-time libraries match (release vs. debug, multi-threaded vs. single-threaded, dll vs. static lib), look for bad deletes (eg, delete where delete [] should have been used), make sure you're not mixing and matching your allocs.

Also try selectively turning off threads and see when/if the problem goes away.

What does the call stack etc look like at the time of the first exception?

My first action would be as follows:

Build the binaries in "Release" version but creating debug info file (you will find this possibility in project settings).
Use Dr Watson as a defualt debugger (DrWtsn32 -I) on a machine on which you want to reproduce the problem.
Repdroduce the problem. Dr Watson will produce a dump that might be helpful in further analysis. 
Another try might be using WinDebug as a debugging tool which is quite powerful being at the same time also lightweight. 
Maybe these tools will allow you at least to narrow the problem to certain component.
And are you sure that all the components of the project have correct runtime library settings (C/C++ tab, Code Generation category in VS 6.0 project settings)?
I have same problems in my work (we also use VC6 sometimes). And there is no easy solution for it. I have only some hints:


Try with automatic crash dumps on production machine (see Process Dumper). My experience says Dr. Watson is not perfect for dumping.
Remove all catch(...) from your code. They often hide serious memory exceptions.
Check Advanced Windows Debugging - there are lots of great tips for problems like yours. I recomend this with all my heart.
If you use STL try STLPort and checked builds. Invalid iterator are hell.


Good luck. Problems like yours take us months to solve. Be ready for this...

How about using FxCop to check to see if the assembly meets your documentation requirements (though this wont be able to check the grammar, spelling and relevance of the contents of the documentation - only you can check that).
MS have released style cop to compliment FXCop http://blogs.msdn.com/sourceanalysis/ unlike fx cop this has better rules and can check amount of comments etc.

To spell check the comment see on my article on spell checking comments and source code for free.
On Linux:


set raw mode
select and read the keystroke
restore normal settings



import sys
import select
import termios
import tty

def getkey():
    old_settings = termios.tcgetattr(sys.stdin)
    tty.setraw(sys.stdin.fileno())
    select.select([sys.stdin], [], [], 0)
    answer = sys.stdin.read(1)
    termios.tcsetattr(sys.stdin, termios.TCSADRAIN, old_settings)
    return answer

print """Menu
1) Say Foo
2) Say Bar"""

answer=getkey()

if "1" in answer: print "foo"
elif "2" in answer: print "bar"



On Windows:



Wow, that took forever. Ok, here's what I've ended up with 



It fails hard using IDLE, the python...thing...that comes with python. But once I tried it in DOS (er, CMD.exe), as a real program, then it ran fine.

No one try it in IDLE, unless you have Task Manager handy.

I've already forgotten how I lived with menus that arn't super-instant responsive.
The  reason msvcrt fails in IDLE is because IDLE is not accessing the library that runs msvcrt. Whereas when you run the program natively in cmd.exe it works nicely. For the same reason that your program blows up on Mac and Linux terminals.

But I guess if you're going to be using this specifically for windows, more power to ya.
Hmm... off by one hour. DST possibly?

Is the date set correctly? 
What version of the JDK is this running on? ("java -version")
It's a "quirk" in the way the JVM looks up the zoneinfo file.  See Bug ID 6456628.

The easiest workaround is to make /etc/localtime a symlink to the correct zoneinfo file.  For Pacific time, the following commands should work:



I haven't had any problems with the symlink approach.

Edit: Added "sudo" to the commands.
It may help to double-check the timezone rules your OS is using.



This file should contain your daylight savings rules, like this one for the year 2080:



You can compare this with the timezone rules you think you should be using. They can be found in /usr/share/zoneinfo/.
Rex, I suspect a good place to start looking is solutions that compress the ViewState -- they're grabbing ViewState on the server before it's sent down to the client and gzipping it. That's exactly where you want to be.


Scott Hanselman on ViewState Compression (2005)
ViewState Compression with System.IO.Compression (2007)

See this blog post where the author describes a method for overriding the default behavior for generating the ViewState and instead shows how to save it on the server Session object.


  In ASP.NET 2.0, ViewState is saved by
  a descendant of PageStatePersister
  class. This class is an abstract class
  for saving and loading ViewsState and
  there are two implemented descendants
  of this class in .Net Framework, named
  HiddenFieldPageStatePersister and
  SessionPageStatePersister. By default
  HiddenFieldPageStatePersister is used
  to save/load ViewState information,
  but we can easily get the
  SessionPageStatePersister to work and
  save ViewState in Session object.


Although I did not test his code, it seems to show exactly what you want: a way to gain access to ViewState code while still on the server, before postback. 
I enabled compression following similar articles to those posted above. The key to accessing the ViewState before the application sends it was overriding this method;



You can call the base method within this override and then add whatever additional logic you require to handle the ViewState.
If you use a return type of IEnumerable, you can return your query variable directly.

Create a class object and return a list(T) of the query.

The left one, then stops if it is null.

Edit: In vb.net it will evaluate both and possibly throw an error, unless you use AndAlso
C# : Left to right, and processing stops if a non-match (evaluates to false) is found.

I have heard somewhere that compilers work backwards, but I am unsure how true this is.
vb.net




Evaluation is done left to right
AndAlso operator makes sure that only if the left side was TRUE, the right side will be evaluated (very important, since ifx is nothing x.go will crash)


You may use And instead ofAndAlso in vb. in which case the left side gets evaluated first as well, but the right side will get evaluated regardless of result. 

Best Practice: Always use AndAlso, unless you have a very good reason why not to.



It was asked in a followup why or when would anyone use And instead of AndAlso (or  instead of ):
Here is an example:



In this case, I want to init both X and Y. Y must be initialized in order for y.DoDance to be able to execute. However, in the init() function I am doing also some extra thing like checking a socket is open, and only if that works out ok, for both, I should go ahead and do the x.process(y).

Again, this is probably not needed and not elegant in 99% of the cases, that is why I said that the default should be to use AndAlso.
The concept modesty is referring to is operator overloading. in the statement:if( A  B){
    // do something
}

A is evaluated first, if it evaluates to false, B is never evaluated. The same applies toif(A || B){
    //do something
}

A is evaluated first, if it evaluates to true, B is never evaluated.
This concept, overloading, applies to (i think) all of the C style languages, and many others as well.
ZombieSheep is dead-on.  The only "gotcha" that might be waiting is that this is only true if you are using the  operator.  When using the  operator, both expressions will be evaluated every time, regardless if one or both evaluate to false.


Note that there is a difference between  and  regarding how much of your expression is evaluated.

 is known as a short-circuited boolean AND, and will, as noted by others here, stop early if the result can be determined before all the sub-expressions are evaluated.

 is known as a logical bitwise operator and will always evaluate all the sub-expressions.

As such:



Will only call b if a returns true.

however, this:



Will always call both a and b, even though the result of calling a is false and thus known to be false regardless of the result of calling b.

This same difference exists for the || and | operators.
Some languages have interesting situations where expressions are executed in a different order.  I am specifically thinking of Ruby, but I'm sure they borrowed it from elsewhere (probably Perl).

The expressions in the logic will stay left to right, but for example:



The above will evaluate "message.nil?" first, then if it evaluates to false (unless is like if except it executes when the condition is false instead of true), "puts message" will execute, which prints the contents of the message variable to the screen.

It's kind of an interesting way to structure your code sometimes... I personally like to use it for very short 1 liners like the above.

Edit:

To make it a little clearer, the above is the same as:


Nopes, at least the C# compiler doesn't work backwards (in either  or ||). It's left to right.

  What is a good example of when to use the bitwise operator instead of the "short-circuited boolean"?


Suppose you have flags, say for file attributes. Suppose you've defined READ as 4, WRITE as 2, and EXEC as 1. In binary, that's:



Each flag has one bit set, and each one is unique. The bitwise operators let you combine these flags:


@shsteimer 


  The concept modesty is referring to is operator overloading. in the statement:
  ...
  A is evaluated first, if it evaluates to false, B is never evaluated. The same applies to


That's not operator overloading. Operator overloading is the term given for letting you define custom behaviour for operators, such as *, +, = and so on.

This would let you write your own 'Log' class, and then do 



Doing this



is actually called Short Circuit Evaluation
You use  when you specifically want to evaluate all the sub-expressions, most likely because they have side-effects you want, even though the final result will be false and thus not execute your then part of your if-statement.

Note that  and | operates for both bitwise masks and boolean values and is not just for bitwise operations. They're called bitwise, but they are defined for both integers and boolean data types in C#.
When things are all in-line, they're executed left-to-right.

When things are nested, they're executed inner-to-outer. This may seem confusing as usually what's "innermost" is on the right-hand side of the line, so it seems like it's going backwards...

For example



Things happen like this:


Call GetAddress with the literal "Orion"
Call GetSummary with the literal "Orion" and the result of GetAddress
Call Foo with the literal 5 and the result of GetSummary
Assign this value to a

I realise this question has already been answered, but I'd like to throw in another bit of information which is related to the topic.

In languages, like C++, where you can actually overload the behaviour of the  and || operators, it is highly recommended that you do not do this. This is because when you overload this behaviour, you end up forcing the evaluation of both sides of the operation. This does two things:


It breaks the lazy evaluation mechanism because the overload is a function which has to be invoked, and hence both parameters are evaluated before calling the function.
The order of evaluation of said parameters isn't guaranteed and can be compiler specific. Hence the objects wouldn't behave in the same manner as they do in the examples listed in the question/previous answers.


For more info, have a read of Scott Meyers' book, More Effective C++. Cheers!
I like Orion's responses. I'll add two things:


The left-to-right still applies first
The inner-to-outer to ensure that all arguments are resolved before calling the function


Say we have the following example:



Here's the order of execution:


GetAddress("Orion")
GetSummary("Orion", ...)
GetAddress("Chris")
GetSummary("Chris", ...)
Foo(...)
Assigns to a


I can't speak about C#'s legal requirements (although I did test a similar example using Mono before writing this post), but this order is guaranteed in Java.

And just for completeness (since this is a language-agnostic thread as well), there are languages like C and C++, where the order is not guaranteed unless there is a sequence point. References: 1, 2. In answering the thread's question, however,  and || are sequence points in C++ (unless overloaded; also see OJ's excellent answer). So some examples:


foo()  bar()
foo()  bar()


In the  case, foo() is guaranteed to run before bar() (if the latter is run at all), since  is a sequence point. In the  case, no such guarantee is made (in C and C++), and indeed bar() can run before foo(), or vice versa.
"C# : Left to right, and processing stops if a match (evaluates to true) is found."

Zombie sheep is wrong, not enough rep to down vote it.

The question is about the  operator, not the || operator.

In the case of  evaluation will stop if a FALSE is found.

In the case of || evaluation stops if a TRUE is found.
Do you need to open the locfile in binary using rb?



Well if you go under the properties of your file in Windows or a *nix environment, you will notice two sizes.  One is the sector size, and one is the actual size.  The sector size is the number of sectors in bytes that are used up on your hard disk.  That is because two files cannot be in the same sector with most modern file systems, so if your file fills up half of the sector the whole sector is marked as filled.

So you might be comparing the sector file size to the actual file size on the FTP server or vice versa.
Small files take up a whole node on the filesystem whatever size that is.

My host tends to report all small files as 4kb in ftp but in a shell gives an accurate size so it might be a 'feature' common to ftp clients.
One possibility is Hudson.  It's written in Java, but there's integration with Python projects:


  Hudson embraces Python


I've never tried it myself, however.

(Update, Sept. 2011: After a trademark dispute Hudson has been renamed to Jenkins.)

We run Buildbot - Trac at work, I haven't used it too much since my code base isn't part of the release cycle yet. But we run the tests on different environments (OSX/Linux/Win) and it sends emails --and it's written in python.
Second the Buildbot - Trac integration. You can find more information about the integration on the Buildbot website. At my previous job, we wrote and used the plugin they mention (tracbb).
What the plugin does is rewriting all of the Buildbot urls so you can use Buildbot from within Trac. (http://example.com/tracbb).

The really nice thing about Buildbot is that the configuration is written in Python. You can integrate your own Python code directly to the configuration. It's also very easy to write your own BuildSteps to execute specific tasks.

We used BuildSteps to get the source from SVN, pull the dependencies, publish test results to WebDAV, etcetera.

I wrote an X10 interface so we could send signals with build results. When the build failed, we switched on a red lava lamp. When the build succeeded, a green lava lamp switched on. Good times :-)
I'm not sure if this would be handled exactly the same way for webstart, but we ran into this situation in a desktop application when dealing with a set of native libraries (dlls in our case).

Loading libA before libB should work, unless one of those libraries has a dependency that is unaccounted for and not in the path. My understanding is that once it gets to a system loadLibrary call (i.e. Java has found the library in its java.library.path and is now telling the OS to load it) - it is completely dependent on the operating system to find any dependent libraries, because at that point it is the operating system that is loading the library for the process, and the OS only knows how to look in the system path. That seems hard to set in the case of a Webstart app, but there is a way around this that does not involve static compiling. You may be able to shuffle where your libraries are - I am unsure 

If you use a custom classloader, you can override loadLibrary and findLibrary so that it can locate your libraries from within a jar in your classpath, and if you also make it aware of your native library dependencies (i.e. libB depends on libA depends on libX, then when loading libB you can catch yourself and ensure you load libA first, and in checking that notice and load libX first. Then the OS doesn't try to find a library that isn't in your path. It's klunky and a bit painful, but ensuring Java finds them and loads them all in the correct order can work.
Hrm. I don't know about yahoo, but there is another mapping website that provides an API for India.


Open your csproj file in notepad (or notepad++)
Find the line: 



and change it to


if its .net on both sides:
think you should use binary serialization and send the byte[] result.
trusting your struct to be fully blittable can be trouble.
you will pay in some overhead (both cpu and network) but will be safe.
If you need to populate each member variable by hand you can generalize it a bit as far as the primitives are concerned by using FormatterServices to retrieve in order the list of variable types associated with an object. I've had to do this in a project where I had a lot of different message types coming off the stream and I definitely didn't want to write the serializer/deserializer for each message. 

Here's the code I used to generalize the deserialization from a byte[].


Most people use .NET serialization (there is faster binary and slower XML formatter, they both depend on reflection and are version tolerant to certain degree)

However, if you want the fastest (unsafe) way - why not:

Writing:



Reading:



One possibility lies with Win32 ANSI/Unicode "name-mangling", which turns the symbol GetMessage into either GetMessageA or GetMessageW. There are three possibilities:


Windows.h hasn't been loaded, so GetMessage stays GetMessage
Windows.h was loaded with symbols set for ANSI, so GetMessage becomes GetMessageA 
Windows.h was loaded with symbols set for Unicode, so GetMessage becomes GetMessageW


If you've compiled two different files in ways that trigger two different scenarios, you'll get a linker error.  The error message indicates that the Comms::Exception class was an instance of #2, above -- perhaps it's used somewhere that windows.h hasn't been loaded?

Other things I'd do in your place, just as a matter of routine:

1) Ensure that my include and library paths don't contain anything that I'm not expecting.

2) Do a "build clean" and then manually verify it, deleting any extra object files if necessary.

3) Make sure there aren't any hardcoded paths in include statements that don't mean what they meant when the project was originally rebuilt.

EDIT: Fighting with the formatting :(

windows.h is declared at the top of IOCompletionPort.h as an include - I was sick of seeing 7 lines just to include 1 file so I have wrapped it its own file and includes that itself. This also contains some additional #defines (ie ULONG_PTR) as our main app won't compile with the Platform SDK installed:-(


That is confirmed. Nothing is out of place.
I've done that - deleted the build directories
I never use hard-coded paths.


Presuming you haven't futzed around with the Project settings deleting something you ought not have (which is where I'd expect external dependencies like User32.lib to be):

Check Tools | Options | Directories | Libraries (going from memory here) and ensure that you're not missing the common-all-garden variety lib directories (again, without VC6 in front of me, I can't tell you what they are)
Does this get the correct answer? 




Should work
This should return the text value of the selected value



Props: @Tanerax for reading the question, knowing what was asked and answering it before others figured it out.

Edit: DownModed, cause I actually read a question fully, and answered it, sad world it is.
Based on your example HTML code, here's one way to get the displayed text of the currently selected option:



in 1.x there used to be things DataTables couldn't do which DataSets could (don't remember exactly what). All that was changed in 2.x.  My guess is that's why a lot of examples still use DataSets.  DataTables should be quicker as they are more lightweight. If you're only pulling a single resultset, its your best choice between the two.
It really depends on the sort of data you're bringing back.  Since a DataSet is (in effect) just a collection of DataTable objects, you can return multiple distinct sets of data into a single, and therefore more manageable, object.  

Performance-wise, you're more likely to get inefficiency from unoptimized queries than from the "wrong" choice of .NET construct.  At least, that's been my experience.

One feature of the DataSet is that if you can call multiple select statements in your stored procedures, the DataSet will have one DataTable for each.
There are three ways to iterate over a result set.  The best way in terms of both
readability and performance is usually to use the built-in cursor iterator.

curs.execute('select * from people')
for row in curs:
    print row


You can fetch all the rows into a list, but this can have some bad
side effects if the result set is large.


You have to wait for the entire result set to be returned to
your client process.
You may eat up a lot of memory in your client to hold
the built-up list.
It may take a while for Python to construct and deconstruct the
list which you are going to immediately discard anyways.


for row in curs.fetchall():
    print row


Finally, you can loop over the result set fetching one row at 
a time.  In general, there's no particular advantage in doing this over
using the iterator.  If there is something in your programming logic
that seems to indicate there is an advantage in doing this, perhaps
you should reconsider your programming logic.

row = curs.fetchone()
while row:
    print row
    row = curs.fetchone()
Application.Run method displays one (or more) forms and initiates the standard message loop which runs until all the forms are closed. You cannot force a return from that method except by closing all your forms or forcing an application shutdown.

You can, however, pass an ApplicationContext (instad of a new Form()) to Application.Run method and ApplicationContext can be used to launch several forms at once. Your application will only end when all of those are closed. See here: http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.windows.forms.application.run.aspx

Also, any forms that you Show non-modally will continue to run alongside your main form, which will enable you to have more than one windows that do not block each other. I believe this is actually what you are trying to accomplish.
I'm sure this is possible if you hack at it hard enough, but I'd suggest it is not a good idea.

'Windows' (that you see on the screen) are highly coupled to processes. That is, each process which displays any GUI is expected to have a Message Loop, which processes all of the messages which are involved with creating and managing windows (things like 'clicked the button', 'closed the app', 'redraw the screen' and so on.

Because of this, it is more or less assumed that if you have any message loop, it must be available for the lifetime of your process. For example windows might send you a 'quit' message, and you need to have a message loop available to handle that, even if you've got nothing on the screen.

Your best bet is do it like this:

Make a fake form which is never shown which is your 'main app'
Start up
Call Application.Run and pass in this fake form.
Do your work in another thread, and fire events at the main thread when you need to do Gui stuff.
I don't know the ASP.NET side of the problem but .NET has a pretty powerful class: System.Globalization.CultureInfo. You can use the following code to parse a string containing a double value:



If ASP.NET somehow (i.e. using HTTP Request headers) passes current user's CultureInfo to either CultureInfo.CurrentCulture or CultureInfo.CurrentUICulture, these will work fine.
You can't please everyone.  If I enter ten as 10.000, and someone enters ten thousand as 10.000, you cannot handle that without some knowledge of the culture of the input.  Detect the culture somehow (browser, system setting - what is the use case?  ASP?  Internal app, or open to the world?), or provide an example of the expected formatting, and use the most lenient parser you can.  Probably something like:


I think the best you can do in this case is to take their input and then show them what you think they meant. If they disagree, show them the format you're expecting and get them to enter it again.
The difference between 12.345 in French and English is a factor of 1000. If you supply an expected range where max  1000*min, you can easily guess. 

Take for example the height of a person (including babies and children) in mm.

By using a range of 200-3000, an input of 1.800 or 1,800 can unambiguously be interpreted as 1 meter and 80 centimeters, whereas an input of 912.300 or 912,300 can unambiguously be interpreted as 91 centimeters and 2.3 millimeters.
From my experience, and from what I've read across the internet, the answer is "No," it is not guaranteed.  It depends on CPU speed, operating system, flavor of Linux, etc.
Maybe. But you have bigger problems. gettimeofday() can result in incorrect timings if there are processes on your system that change the timer (ie, ntpd). On a "normal" linux, though, I believe the resolution of gettimeofday() is 10us. It can jump forward and backward and time, consequently, based on the processes running on your system. This effectively makes the answer to your question no.

You should look into clock_gettime(CLOCK_MONOTONIC) for timing intervals. It suffers from several less issues due to things like multi-core systems and external clock settings.

Also, look into the clock_getres() function.


  The actual resolution of gettimeofday() depends on the hardware architecture. Intel processors as well as SPARC machines offer high resolution timers that measure microseconds. Other hardware architectures fall back to the systems timer, which is typically set to 100 Hz. In such cases, the time resolution will be less accurate. 


I obtained this answer from High Resolution Time Measurement and Timers, Part I
High Resolution, Low Overhead Timing for Intel Processors

If you're on Intel hardware, here's how to read the CPU real-time instruction counter.  It will tell you the number of CPU cycles executed since the processor was booted.  This is probably the finest-grained counter you can get for performance measurement.

Note that this is the number of CPU cycles.  On linux you can get the CPU speed from /proc/cpuinfo and divide to get the number of seconds.  Converting this to a double is quite handy.

When I run this on my box, I get



Here's the Intel developer's guide that  gives tons of detail.




  So it says microseconds explicitly, but says the resolution of the system clock is unspecified. I suppose resolution in this context means how the smallest amount it will ever be incremented?


The data structure is defined as having microseconds as a unit of measurement, but that doesn't mean that the clock or operating system is actually capable of measuring that finely.

Like other people have suggested, gettimeofday() is bad because setting the time can cause clock skew and throw off your calculation.  clock_gettime(CLOCK_MONOTONIC) is what you want, and clock_getres() will tell you the precision of your clock.

@Bernard:


  I have to admit, most of your example went straight over my head. It does compile, and seems to work, though. Is this safe for SMP systems or SpeedStep?


That's a good question... I think the code's ok.
From a practical standpoint, we use it in my company every day,
and we run on a pretty wide array of boxes, everything from 2-8 cores.
Of course, YMMV, etc, but it seems to be a reliable and low-overhead
(because it doesn't make a context switch into system-space) method
of timing.

Generally how it works is:


declare the block of code to be assembler (and volatile, so the
optimizer will leave it alone).
execute the CPUID instruction.  In addition to getting some CPU information
(which we don't do anything with) it synchronizes the CPU's execution buffer
so that the timings aren't affected by out-of-order execution.
execute the rdtsc (read timestamp) execution.  This fetches the number of
machine cycles executed since the processor was reset.  This is a 64-bit
value, so with current CPU speeds it will wrap around every 194 years or so.
Interestingly, in the original Pentium reference, they note it wraps around every
5800 years or so.
the last couple of lines store the values from the registers into
the variables hi and lo, and put that into the 64-bit return value.


Specific notes:


out-of-order execution can cause incorrect results, so we execute the
"cpuid" instruction which in addition to giving you some information
about the cpu also synchronizes any out-of-order instruction execution.
Most OS's synchronize the counters on the CPUs when they start, so
the answer is good to within a couple of nano-seconds.
The hibernating comment is probably true, but in practice you
probably don't care about timings across hibernation boundaries.
regarding speedstep: Newer Intel CPUs compensate for the speed
changes and returns an adjusted count.  I did a quick scan over
some of the boxes on our network and found only one box that
didn't have it: a Pentium 3 running some old database server.
(these are linux boxes, so I checked with: grep constant_tsc /proc/cpuinfo)
I'm not sure about the AMD CPUs, we're primarily an Intel shop,
although I know some of our low-level systems gurus did an
AMD evaluation.


Hope this satisfies your curiosity, it's an interesting and (IMHO)
under-studied area of programming.  You know when Jeff and Joel were
talking about whether or not a programmer should know C?  I was
shouting at them, "hey forget that high-level C stuff... assembler
is what you should learn if you want to know what the computer is
doing!"

Wine is actually using gettimeofday() to implement QueryPerformanceCounter() and it is known to make many Windows games work on Linux and Mac.

Starts http://source.winehq.org/source/dlls/kernel32/cpu.c#L312

leads to http://source.winehq.org/source/dlls/ntdll/time.c#L448
No, it can't do that since there is no way to express constant over time for a value.

If the compiler should be able to do that, there would have to be a guarantee from the code returning the value that the value is constant, and for the duration of the loop won't change.

But, in this case, you're free to add new rows to the data table as part of your loop, and thus it's up to you to make that guarantee, in the way you have done it.

So in short, the compiler will not do that optimization if the end-index is anything other than a variable.

In the case of a variable, where the compiler can just look at the loop-code and see that this particular variable is not changed, it might do that and load the value into a register before starting the loop, but any performance gain from this would most likely be negligible, unless your loop body is empty.

Conclusion: If you know, or is willing to accept, that the end loop index is constant for the duration of the loop, place it into a variable.



Edit: Re-read your post, and yes, you might see negligible performance gains for your two cases as well, because the JITter optimizes the code. The JITter might optimize your end-index read into a direct access to the variable inside the data table that contains the row count, and a memory read isn't all that expensive anyway. If, on the other hand, reading that property was a very expensive operation, you'd see a more noticable difference.
At least in VS 2008, its very easy. It took me about a couple of minutes to code the answer after reading your question. Here's where I borrowed it from:

I tested this, and it works.
A solution, albeit one that defers handling of the null value to the code, could be:


  DateTime yesterday = DateTime.Now.Date.AddDays(-1);




This does not produce exactly the same SQL, but does provide the same logical result. Translating "complex" SQL queries to LINQ is not always straightforward.

You'll want the struct package.

My Environment: Fedora 8; WAS 6.1 (as installed with Rational Application Developer 7)

The documentation is very poor in this area and there is a dearth of practical examples.

Using the WebSphere Application Server (WAS) Ant tasks

To run as described here, you need to run them from your server profile bin directory using the ws_ant.sh or ws_ant.bat commands.



Command:



A Deployment Script



Notes:


You can only run this once! You cannot install if the app name is in use - see other tasks like wsUninstallApp
It probably won't start the app either
You need to run this on the server and the script is quite fragile


Alternatives

I would probably use Java Management Extensions (JMX). You could write a file-upload servlet that accepts an EAR and uses the deployment MBeans to deploy the EAR on the server. You would just POST the file over HTTP. This would avoid any WAS API dependencies on your dev/build machine and could be independent of any one project.

The quick and simple answer is No.

Javascript is quite a high level language and does not have access to this sort of information.
If this is for an intranet application and all of the clients use DHCP, you can query the DHCP server for the MAC address for a given IP address.
Nope. The reason ActiveX can do it is because ActiveX is a little application that runs on the client's machine.

I would imagine access to such information via JavaScript would be a security vulnerability.
A dictionary may also contain overhead, depending on the actual implementation. A hashtable usually contain some prime number of available nodes to begin with, even though you might only use a couple of the nodes.

Judging by your example, "Property", would you be better of with a class approach for the final level and real properties? Or is the names of the properties changing a lot from node to node?

I'd say that what "efficient" means depends on a lot of things, like:


speed of updates (insert, update, delete)
speed of random access retrieval
speed of sequential retrieval
memory used


I think that you'll find that a data structure that is speedy will generally consume more memory than one that is slow. This isn't always the case, but most data structures seems to follow this.

A dictionary might be easy to use, and give you relatively uniformly fast access, it will most likely use more memory than, as you suggest, lists. Lists, however, generally tend to contain more overhead when you insert data into it, unless they preallocate X nodes, in which they will again use more memory.

My suggestion, in general, would be to just use the method that seems the most natural to you, and then do a "stress test" of the system, adding a substantial amount of data to it and see if it becomes a problem.

You might also consider adding a layer of abstraction to your system, so that you don't have to change the programming interface if you later on need to change the internal data structure.
Making a class-based structure would probably have more overhead than the dict-based structure, since in python classes actually use dicts when they are implemented.
As I understand it, random access is in constant time for both Python's dicts and lists, the difference is that you can only do random access of integer indexes with lists.  I'm assuming that you need to lookup a node by its label, so you want a dict of dicts.

However, on the performance front, loading it into memory may not be a problem, but if you use too much you'll end up swapping to disk, which will kill the performance of even Python's highly efficient dicts.  Try to keep memory usage down as much as possible.  Also, RAM is amazingly cheap right now; if you do this kind of thing a lot, there's no reason not to have at least 4GB.

If you'd like advice on keeping memory usage down, give some more information about the kind of information you're tracking for each node.
erm.. HTML? (trying to be funny here... while we wait for real answers..)
The wxWidgets (formerly known as wxWindows) library might be what you're looking for. There's a particularly good port for Python, wxPython, as well as versions for different languages -- C#, C++, Perl and Ruby come to mind -- and for various GUIs: Win32, Mac OS X, GTK+, X11, Motif, WinCE. The library's been around for a while and is pretty solid.
Not sure if this is what you're looking for, but there's Glade (or Windows download) which is a designer for GTK+. It generates an XML file which can then be used to build the GUI in a number of different languages.
Qt (pronounced "cute" by its creators[1]) is a cross-platform application development framework, widely used for the development of GUI programs.

Qt uses C++ with several non-standard extensions implemented by an additional pre-processor that generates standard C++ code before compilation. Qt can also be used in several other programming languages; bindings exist for Ada (QtAda)[4], C# (Qyoto/Kimono)[5], Java (Qt Jambi)[6], Pascal, Perl, PHP (PHP-Qt), Ruby (RubyQt), and Python (PyQt). It runs on all major platforms, and has extensive internationalization support. Non-GUI features include SQL database access, XML parsing, thread management, network support and a unified cross-platform API for file handling.


See: platform  Access to underlying platforms identifying data

Dang -- lbrandy beat me to the punch, but that doesn't mean I can't provide you with the system results for Vista!



For the record here's the results on Mac:



Take a look at the open street map project to see how this sort of thing is being tackled in a truely free software project using only user supplied and licensed data and have a wiki containing stuff you might find interesting.

A few years back the guys involved where pretty easy going and answered lots of questions I had so I see no reason why they still aren't a nice bunch.
Instead of learning APIs to each map service provider ( like Gmaps, Ymaps api) Its good to learn Mapstraction

"Mapstraction is a library that provides a common API for various javascript mapping APIs"

I would suggest you go to the URL and learn a general API. There is good amount of How-Tos too.
Try this:


I don't see any problem with your code.

just out of my head, what if you try to do it manually? does it work?



also try



then use buffer[] in your BinaryReader instead of reading data from FileStream to see whether you still get AccessViolation exception.


  I had no luck using the
  BinaryFormatter, I guess I have to
  have a complete struct that matches
  the content of the file exactly.


That makes sense, BinaryFormatter has its own data format, completely incompatible with yours.
I had no luck using the BinaryFormatter, I guess I have to have a complete struct that matches the content of the file exactly. I realised that in the end I wasn't interested in very much of the file content anyway so I went with the solution of reading part of stream into a bytebuffer and then converting it using



for strings and



for the integers.

I will need to be able to parse more of the file later on but for this version I got away with just a couple of lines of code.

Check out Google Charts
Flot can create some really nice looking charts. It's a JavaScript library rather than a service like Google Charts. It does require jQuery though.

If you use jquery:


For the YUI users:


10 JavaScript Graphing/Charting Libraries
I noticed that a few people mentioned Flot but nobody mentioned Flotr!  Also on Google Code http://code.google.com/p/flotr/.

Check a JSON example, complete with the code to do it, right here.

It requires the Prototype.js Javascript library and works in all modern browsers!
When you're using .Net 2.0 and Ajax - you should use:



It will work better in Ajax environments then the old Page.ClientScript version

Try changing the argument names to "sender" and "args".  And, after you have it working, switch the call over to ScriptManager.RegisterClientScriptBlock, regardless of AJAX use.
While I would still like an answer to why my JS wasn't being recognized, the solution I found in the meantime (and should have done in the first place) is to use an Asp:CompareValidator instead of an Asp:CustomValidator.
While you cannot prevent usage of those inherited members to my knowledge, you should be able to hide them from IntelliSense using the EditorBrowsableAttribute:



Edit: Just saw this in the documentation comments, which makes it kinda useless for this purpose:


  There is a prominent note that states that this attribute "does not suppress members from a class in the same assembly". That is true but not complete. Actually, the attribute does not suppress members from a class in the same solution.


I think you're best least hackish way is to consider composition as opposed to inheritance.

Or, you could create an interface that has the members you want, have your derived class implement that interface, and program against the interface.
One potential thing you can do is contain the object rather than extend from the other class.  This will give you the most flexibility in terms of exposing what you want to expose, but if you absolutely need the object to be of that type it is not the ideal solution (however you could expose the object from a getter).

Thus:



Becomes:



Or:


Override them like Michael Suggests above and to prevent folks from using the overridden (sp?) methods, mark them as obsolete:



If the second parm is set to true, a compiler error will be generated if anyone tries to  call that method and the string in the first parm is the message.  If parm2 is false only a compiler warning will be generated.
I am thinking off the top of my head here. If you load both as Data Tables in the same Data Sets, and define a relation between the two over SKU, and then run a query on the Data Set which produces the desired result.
As long as the two databases are on the same physical server (assuming MSSQL) and the username/password being used in the connection string has rights to both DBs, then you should be able to perform a join across the two databases. Example: 


Why not create a Domain object based approach to this problem:



There are a million variations on this, but once you aggregate this information, wouldn't it be easier to present?
Why not use SQLite? There is good support in Python and you can write SQL queries to get the data out. Here is the Python docs for sqlite3



If you don't want to use SQLite you could do an array of dicts.



That way you add metadata to any record and search it very easily


There are several ways to do this. Common methods use recursion, memoization, or dynamic programming. The basic idea is that you produce a list of all strings of length 1, then in each iteration, for all strings produced in the last iteration, add that string concatenated with each character in the string individually. (the variable index in the code below keeps track of the start of the last and the next iteration)

Some pseudocode:



you'd then need to remove all strings less than x in length, they'll be the first (x-1) * len(originalString) entries in the list.

I just whipped this up quick in Ruby:



You might look into language API for built in permutation type functions, and you might be able to write more optimized code, but if the numbers are all that high, I'm not sure there is much of a way around having a lot of results.

Anyways, the idea behind the code is start with string of length 0, then keep track of all the strings of length Z where Z is the current size in the iteration.  Then, go through each string and append each character onto each string.  Finally at the end, remove any that were below the x threshold and return the result.

I didn't test it with potentially meaningless input (null character list, weird values of x and y, etc).
I'm not sure why you would want to do this in the first place. The resulting set for any moderately large values of x and y will be huge, and will grow exponentially as x and/or y get bigger. 

Lets say your set of possible characters is the 26 lowercase letters of the alphabet, and you ask your application to generate all permutations where length = 5. Assuming you don't run out of memory you'll get 11,881,376 (i.e. 26 to the power of 5) strings back. Bump that length up to 6, and you'll get 308,915,776 strings back. These numbers get painfully large, very quickly.

Here's a solution I put together in Java. You'll need to provide two runtime arguments (corresponding to x and y). Have fun.


You are going to get a lot of strings, that's for sure...

 
Where, x and y is how you define them and r is the number of characters we are selecting from --if I am understanding you correctly. You should definitely generate these as needed and not get sloppy and say, generate a powerset and then filter the length of strings.

The following definitely isn't the best way to generate these, but it's an interesting aside, none-the-less.

Knuth (volume 4, fascicle 2, 7.2.1.3) tells us that (s,t)-combination is equivalent to s+1 things taken t at a time with repetition -- an (s,t)-combination is notation used by Knuth that is equal to . We can figure this out by first generating each (s,t)-combination in binary form (so, of length (s+t)) and counting the number of 0's to the left of each 1.

10001000011101 -- becomes the permutation: {0, 3, 4, 4, 4, 1}
First you will need some GUI library with Python bindings and then (if you want) some program that will convert your python scripts into standalone executables.

Cross-platform GUI libraries with Python bindings (Windows, Linux, Mac)

Of course, there are many, but the most popular that I've seen in wild are:


Tkinter  - based on Tk GUI toolkit (de-facto standard GUI library for python, free for commercial projects)
WxPython - based on WxWidgets (very popular, free for commercial projects)
PyQt - based on Qt (also very popular and more stable than WxWidgets but costly license for commercial projects)


Complete list is at http://wiki.python.org/moin/GuiProgramming

Single executable (Windows)


py2exe - Probably the most popular out there (PyInstaller is also gaining in popularity)


Single executable (Linux)


Freeze - works the same way like py2exe but targets Linux platform


Single executable (Mac)


py2app - again, works like py2exe but targets Mac OS


You don't need to compile python for Mac/Windows/Linux.  It is an interpreted language, so you simply need to have the Python interpreter installed on the system of your choice (it is available for all three platforms).

As for a GUI library that works cross platform, Python's Tk/Tcl widget library works very well, and I believe is sufficiently cross platform.

Tkinter is the python interface to Tk/Tcl

From the python project webpage: 


  Tkinter is not the only GuiProgramming
  toolkit for Python.  It is however the
  most commonly used one, and almost the
  only  one that is portable between
  Unix, Mac and Windows

Since python is installed on nearly every non-Windows OS by default now, the only thing you really need to make sure of is that all of the non-standard libraries you use are installed.

Having said that, it is possible to build executables that include the python interpreter, and any libraries you use.  This is likely to create a large executable, however.

MacOS X even includes support in the Xcode IDE for creating full standalone GUI apps.  These can be run by any user running OS X.
I'm not a PHP dev but Google says that PHP 5+ can instantiate COM components. If you can install Outlook on a box you could write a PHP web service around the COM component to handle the requests you need. 



Outlook API referance
I have not used PHP to do this but have experience in using C# to achieve the same thing.

The Outlook API is a way of automating Outlook rather than connecting to Exchange directly. I have previously taken this approach in a C# application and it does work although can be buggy.

If you wish to connect directly to the Exchange server you will need to research extended MAPI.

In the past I used this wrapper MAPIEx: Extended MAPI Wrapper.

It is a C# project but I believe you can use some .NET code on a PHP5 Windows server. Alternatively it has a C++ core DLL that you may be a able to use. I have found it to be very good and there are some good example applications.

Update:

Sorry for the delay no current way to keep track of posts yet.

I do agree adding more layer on to your application and relying on 3rd party code can be scary (and rightfully so.)

Today I read another interesting post tagged up as MAPI that is on a different subject. The key thing here though is that it has linked to this important MS article. I have been unaware of the issues until now on using managed code to interface to MAPI although the C++ code in the component should be unaffected by this error as it is unmanaged. 

This blog entry also suggests other ways to connect to MAPI/Exchange server. In this case due to these new facts http://us3.php.net/imap may be the answer as suggested by the other user.

I would look into IMAP

IMAP, POP3 and NNTP

Is your customer using Exchange 2007? If so, I'd have a look at Exchange Web Services. If not, as hairy as it can be, I think WebDAV is your best bet. 
Personally I don't like using the Outlook.Application COM object route, as its security prompts ("An application is attempting to access your contacts. Allow this?", etc.) can cause problems on a server. I also think it would be difficult to accomplish your impersonation-like tasks using Outlook, such as sending mail as a given user.

In general, CSS properties are converted to JavaScript by making them camelCase without any dashes. So background-color becomes backgroundColor.



Or, using a little jQuery:


This warning is there because Java is not actually storing type information at run-time in an object that uses generics.  Thus, if object is actually a ListString, there will be no ClassCastException at run-time except until an item is accessed from the list that doesn't match the generic type defined in the variable.  

This can cause further complications if items are added to the list, with this incorrect generic type information.  Any code still holding a reference to the list but with the correct generic type information will now have an inconsistent list.  

To remove the warning, try:



However, note that you will not be able to use certain methods such as add because the compiler doesn't know if you are trying to add an object of incorrect type.  The above will work in a lot of situations, but if you have to use add, or some similarly restricted method, you will just have to suffer the yellow underline in Eclipse (or a SuppressWarning annotation).

Try removing the 0x first and then call Encoding.UTF8.GetString. I think that may work.

Essentially: 0x44004500

Remove the 0x, and then always two bytes are one character:



So it's definitely a Unicode/UTF format with two bytes/character.

Hazzah!!!!

I went back to Michael's post, did some more poking and realized that I did need to do a double conversion, and eventually worked out this little nugget:



From there I simply made a loop to go through all the characters 2 by 2 and get them "hexified" and then translated to a string.

To Nick, and anybody else interested, I went ahead and posted my little application over in CodePlex. Feel free to use/modify as you need.

The solution is to use the TempData property to store the desired Request components.

For instance:



Then in your "Form" action you can go:



Keep in mind that TempData stores the form collection in session. If you don't like that behavior, you can implement the new ITempDataProvider interface and use some other mechanism for storing temp data. I wouldn't do that unless you know for a fact (via measurement and profiling) that the use of Session state is hurting you.
Not Java per-se, but you may run into issues where you have written something to a file, but it hasn't been actually written yet - it might be in a cache somewhere, and reading from the same file may not actually give you the new information.

Short version - use flush() or whatever the relevant system call is to ensure that your data is actually written to the file.

Note I am not talking about the OS level disk cache - if your data gets into here, it should appear in a read() after this point.  It may be that the language itself caches writes, waiting until a buffer fills up or file is flushed/closed.
I've never tried it, but you should write a test case to see if reading from a stream after you have hit the end will work, regardless of if there is more data written to the file.

Is there a reason you can't use a piped input/output stream?  Is the data being written and read from the same application (if so, you have the data, why do you need to read from the file)?

Otherwise, maybe read till end of file, then monitor for changes and seek to where you left off and continue... though watch out for race conditions.
The answer seems to be "no" ... and "yes". There seems to be no real way to know if a file is open for writing by another application. So, reading from such a file will just progress until content is exhausted. I took Mike's advice and wrote some test code:

Writer.java writes a string to file and then waits for the user to hit enter before writing another line to file. The idea being that it could be started up, then a reader can be started to see how it copes with the "partial" file. The reader I wrote is in Reader.java.

Writer.java



Reader.java



No guarantees that this code is best practice.

This leaves the option suggested by Mike of periodically checking if there is new data to be read from the file. This then requires user intervention to close the file reader when it is determined that the reading is completed. Or, the reader needs to be made aware the content of the file and be able to determine and end of write condition. If the content were XML, the end of document could be used to signal this.
As the compiler is telling you, you need to change your return type to IEnumerable. That is how the yield return syntax works.


If you return IEnumerator, it will be a different enumerator object each time call that method (acting as though you reset the enumerator on each iteration). If you return IEnumerable then a foreach can enumerate based on the method with the yield statement.
Just to clarify



Changes to



That should be all :-)
Does calling the method twice work?

Seems to me that your authentication is being approved after the content arrives, so then a second attempt now works because you have the correct cookies.
Unfortunately, compilers can't work on theoretical principles, and even though you may know that it is safe in your case, if they allowed it, it would have to be safe for all cases.

In other words, the compiler isn't stopping just you, it's stopping everyone, including all those that don't know that it is unsafe and needs special handling. There are probably other reasons for this as well, as all languages usually have ways to do unsafe things if one knows how to deal with them.

In C# .NET there are similar provisions, and the only way to declare a constructor that calls a base constructor is this:



in doing so, the base constructor will be called before the body of the constructor, and you cannot change this order.
I don't know how Java is implemented internally, but if the constructor of the superclass throws an exception, then there isn't a instance of the class you extend.  It would be impossible to call the toString() or equals() methods, for example, since they are inherited in most cases.

Java may allow a try/catch around the super() call in the constructor if 1. you override ALL methods from the superclasses, and 2. you don't use the super.XXX() clause, but that all sounds too complicated to me.

I can't presume to have a deep understanding of Java internals, but it is my understanding that, when a compiler needs to instantiate a derived class, it has to first create the base (and its base before that(...)) and then slap on the extensions made in the subclass. 

So it is not even the danger of uninited variables or anything like that at all. When you try to do something in the subclass' constructor before the base class' constructor, you are basically asking the compiler to extend a base object instance that doesn't exist yet.

Edit:In your case, MyClass becomes the base object, and MyClassMock is a subclass.
The list [1,2,3] is dynamic and flexible but that flexibility comes at a speed cost.

The tuple (1,2,3) is fixed (immutable) and therefore faster.

From the Python FAQ:


  Lists and tuples, while similar in many respects, are generally used in fundamentally different ways. Tuples can be thought of as being similar to Pascal records or C structs; they're small collections of related data which may be of different types which are operated on as a group. For example, a Cartesian coordinate is appropriately represented as a tuple of two or three numbers.
  
  Lists, on the other hand, are more like arrays in other languages. They tend to hold a varying number of objects all of which have the same type and which are operated on one-by-one.


Generally by convention you wouldn't choose a list or a tuple just based on its (im)mutability.  You would choose a tuple for small collections of completely different pieces of data in which a full-blown class would be too heavyweight, and a list for collections of any reasonable size where you have a homogeneous set of data.
Tuples are a quick\flexible way to create composite data-types.
Lists are containers for, well, lists of objects.

For example, you would use a List to store a list of student details in a class.

Each student detail in that list may be a 3-tuple containing their roll number, name and test score.



Also, because tuples are immutable they can be used as keys in dictionaries.
As others have mentioned, Lists and tuples are both containers which can be used to store python objects. Lists are extensible and their contents can change by assignment, on the other hand tuples are immutable.
Also, lists cannot be used as keys in a dictionary whereas tuples can. 
If you can find a solution that works with tuples, use them, as it forces immutability which kind of drives you down a more functional path. You almost never regret going down the functional/immutable path.
I've seen it done in a kind of iffy, but pretty reliable way.  Basically, an element is set to use a specific font and a string is set to that element.  If the font set for the element does not exist, it takes the font of the parent element.  So, what they do is measure the width of the rendered string.  If it matches what they expected for the desired font as opposed to the derived font, it's present.

Here's where it came from:
Javascript/CSS Font Detector (ajaxian.com; 12 Mar 2007)

This is an active area of research. There are literally oodles of academic papers on the subject. It's going to be difficult to give you assistance especially w/o more deatails. Are you looking for specific types of text? Fonts? English-only? Are you familiar with the academic literature? 

"Text detection" is a standard problem in any OCR (optical character recognition) system and consequently there are lots of bits of code on the interwebs that deal with it. 

I could start listing piles of links from google but I suggest you just do a search for "text detection" and start reading :). There is ample example code available as well.
recognizing text inside an image is indeed a hot topic for researchers in that field, but only begun to grow out of control when captcha's became the "norm" in terms of defense against spam bots. Why use captcha's as protection? well because it is/was very hard to locate (and read) text inside an image!

The reason why I mention captcha's is because the most advancement* is made within that tiny area, and I think that your solution could be best found there.
especially because captcha's are indeed about locating text (or something that resembles text) inside a cluttered image and afterwards trying to read the letters correctly.

so if you can find yourself a good open source captcha breaking tool you probably have all you need to continue your quest... 
You could probably even throw away the most dificult code that handles the character recognition itself, because those OCR's are used to read distorted text, something you don't have to do.

*: advancement in terms of visible, usable, and practical information for a "non-researcher"
I think you're looking for GetModuleFileName.

Untested though, been some time since I worked with Delphi :)

Focus on the shorter time needed for development/prototype and possibly easier maintenance (none of this may apply against Ruby).
This is one of those cases that really boil down to personal preference or situational details. If you're more comfortable and experienced with Python, then say so. Are they asking you to justify it because they're more comfortable with one of the other environments? After you're done, will the system be passed off to someone else for long-term maintenance?

If they ask you to use a technology or language that you're not as familiar with, then make sure they know up-front that it's going to take you longer.
I would consider that using python on a new project is completely dependent on what problem you are trying to solve with python.  If you want someone to agree with you that you should use python, then show them how python's features apply specifically to that problem.

In the case of web development with python, talk about WSGI and other web libraries and frameworks you could use that would make your life easier.  One note for python is that most of the frameworks for python web development can be plugged right into any current project. With ruby on rails, you're practically working in a DSL that anyone who uses your project will have to learn.  If they know python, then they can figure out what you are doing with django, etc in a day.

I'm only talking about web development because it appears that's what you are going to be working on seeing ruby, python and PHP in the same list.  The real message that's important is applying to whatever it is you like about python directly to some problem you are trying to solve.
I don't have Visual Studio installed on my machine anymore (and I'm using Linux), but I do remember that there was an wizard hidden somewhere inside one of the menus that gave access to a class builder.

With this wizard, you could define all your classes' details, including methods and attributes.  If I remember well, there was an option through which you could ask VS to create the setters and getters automatically for you.

I know it's quite vague, but check it out and you might find it.
By generate, do you mean auto-generate? If that's not what you mean:

Visual Studio 2008 has the easiest implementation for this:



In the background this creates an implied instance variable to which your property is stored and retrieved.

However if you want to put in more logic in your Properties, you will have to have an instance variable for it:



Previous versions of Visual Studio always used this longhand method as well.
If you are using Visual Studio 2005 and up you can create a setter/getter real fast using the insert snippet command. Right click on your code click on Insert Snippet (Ctrl+k,x) and then choose "prop" form the list. Hope this helps.

Rather than using ctrl+k,x you can also just type prop and then hit tab twice

Visual Studio also has a feature that will generate a Property from a private variable.

If you right-click on a variable, in the context menu that pops up click on the "Refactor" item. Then choose encapsulate field. This will create a getter/setter property for a variable.

I'm not too big a fan of this technique as it is a little bit awkward to use if you have to create a lot of getters/setters, and it puts the property directly below the private field, which bugs me because I usually have all of my private fields grouped together, and this Visual Studio feature breaks my class' formatting.
When I needed to write an application with a client-server model where the clients could leave and enter whenever they want, (I assume that's also the case for your application as you use mobile devices) I made sure that the clients send an online message to the server, indicating they were connected and ready to do whatever they needed doing.

at that time the server could send messages back to the client trough the same open connection.

Also, but I don't know if that is applicable for you, I had some sort of heartbeat the clients sent to the server, letting it know it was still online. That way the server knows when a client was forcibly disconnected from the network and it could mark that client back as offline.
I'm not clear on whether or not you're wanting to add the asynchronous bits to the server in C# or the client in C++.

If you're talking about doing this in C++, desktop Windows platforms can do socket I/O asynchronously through the API's that use overlapped I/O.  For sockets, WSASend, WSARecv both allow async I/O (read the documentation on their LPOVERLAPPED parameters, which you can populate with events that get set when the I/O completes).

I don't know if Windows Mobile platforms support these functions, so you might have to do some additional digging. 
Just wondering, what do you feel your method leaves to be desired?  You could replace the anonymous delegate with a.. named? delegate, something like


This looks like an excellent opportunity to have a look at Aspect Oriented Programming. Here is a good article on AOP in .NET. The general idea is that you'd extract the cross-functional concern (i.e. Retry for x hours) into a separate class and then you'd annotate any methods that need to modify their behaviour in that way. Here's how it might look (with a nice extension method on Int32)[RetryFor( 10.Hours() )]
public void DeleteArchive()
{
  //.. code to just delete the archive
}

You could also use a more OO approach:


Create a base class that does the error handling and calls an abstract method to perform the concrete work. (Template Method pattern)
Create concrete classes for each operation.


This has the advantage of naming each type of operation you perform and gives you a Command pattern - operations have been represented as objects.
I use UnitTest++.

While the example tutorial is for Visual Studio 2005, the concepts are similar (try setting one up for VC6...).

Update: The VC6 hacks are now included in the source!

I've worked on a SAN system in the past with telephony audio recordings which had issues with numbers of files in a single folder - that system became unusable somewhere near 5,000 (on Windows 2000 Advanced Server with an application in C#.Net 1.1)- the only sensible solution that we came up with was to change the folder structure so that there were a more reasonable number of files. Interestingly Explorer would also time out!

The convention we came up with was a structure that broke the structure up in years, months and days - but that will depend upon your system and whether you can control the directory structure...
None. .NET relies on underlying Windows API calls that really, really hate that amount of files themselves.
As Ronnie says: split them up. 
You could use DOS?


Definitely split them up.  That said, stay as far away from the Indexing Service as you can.
You could also look at either indexing the files yourself, or getting a third part app like google desktop or copernic to do it and then interface with their index. I know copernic has an API that you can use to search for any file in their index and it also supports mapping network drives.
The second example will execute the function after creating it.

edit: this isn't really true.
@Lance: the first one is also executing. Compare it with a named constructor:



this is actually also executing code. The same goes for the anonymous constructor...

But that was not the question ;-)
Both cases will execute the function, the only real difference is what the return value of the expression may be, and what the value of "this" will be inside the function.

Basically behaviour of



Is effectively equivalent to



Although of course tempObject and result are transient values you can never see (they're implementation details in the interpreter), and there is no JS mechanism to do the "is not an object" check.

Broadly speaking the "new function() { .. }" method will be slower due to the need to create the this object for the constructor.

That said this should be not be a real difference as object allocation is not slow, and you shouldn't be using such code in hot code (due to the cost of creating the function object and associated closure).

Edit: one thing i realised that i missed from this is that the tempObject will get expressions prototype, eg. (before the expression.call) tempObject.__proto__ = expression.prototype
Well, I made a page like this:



Surprisingly enough (to me anyway) it alerted both "method 1" and method 2".  I didn't expect "method 1" to be alerted.  The difference was what the values of a and b were.  a was the function itself, while b was the string that the function returned.
Yes, there are differences between the two.

Both are anonymous functions and execute in the exact same way. But, the difference between the two is that in the second case scope of the variables is restricted to the anonymous function itself. There is no chance of accidentally adding variables to the global scope.

This implies that by using the second method, you are not cluttering up the global variables scope which is good as these global variable values can interfere with some other global variables that you may use in some other library or are being used in a third party library.

Example:



In the above code the output is something like:


  Hello Inside Function
  Hello Outside Function
  World Inside Function


... then, you get an error as 'b' is not defined outside the function!

Thus, I believe that the second method is better... safer!

They both create a closure by executing the code block. As a matter of style I much prefer the second for a couple of reasons:

It's not immediately obvious by glancing at the first that the code will actually be executed; the line looks like it is creating a new function, rather than executing it as a constructor, but that's not what's actually happening. Avoid code that doesn't do what it looks like it's doing!

Also the (function(){ ... })(); make nice bookend tokens so that you can immediately see that you're entering and leaving a closure scope. This is good because it alerts the programmer reading it to the scope change, and is especially useful if you're doing some postprocessing of the file, eg for minification.
The reason was that the value I was retrieving was from a form element, but the submit was done through a link + JQuery, not through a form button submit.
Request.Form only includes variables posted through a form, while Request.Params includes both posted form variables and get variables specified as URL parameters.
Typically, integer values are signed, unless you explicitly need an unsigned value. It's just the way they are used. I may not agree with that choice, but that's just the way it is.

For the time being, with todays typical memory constraints, if your array or similar data structure needs an UInt32 length, you should consider other data structures.

With an array of bytes, Int32 will give you 2GB of values
Unsigned int isn't CLS compliant and would therefore restrict usage of the property to those languages that do implement a UInt. 

See here:

Framework 1.1


  Introduction to the .NET Framework Class Library


Framework 2.0


  .NET Framework Class Library Overview 


I think it also might have to do with simplifying things on a lower level, since Array.Length will of course be added to a negative number at some point, if Array.Length were unsigned, and added to a negative int (two's complement), there could be messy results.
Dive Into Python has a chapter. Can't vouch for how good it would be though.

Personally, I've played with several of the built-in options on an XML-heavy project and have settled on pulldom as the best choice for less complex documents.

Especially for small simple stuff, I like the event-driven theory of parsing rather than setting up a whole slew of callbacks for a relatively simple structure.  Here is a good quick discussion of how to use the API.

What I like: you can handle the parsing in a for loop rather than using callbacks.  You also delay full parsing (the "pull" part) and only get additional detail when you call expandNode().  This satisfies my general requirement for "responsible" efficiency without sacrificing ease of use and simplicity.
ElementTree has a nice pythony API.  I think it's even shipped as part of python 2.5

It's in pure python and as I say, pretty nice, but if you wind up needing more performance, then lxml exposes the same API and uses libxml2 under the hood.  You can theoretically just swap it in when you discover you need it.
Since you mentioned that you'll be building "fairly simple" XML, the minidom module (part of the Python Standard Library) will likely suit your needs. If you have any experience with the DOM representation of XML, you should find the API quite straight forward.
I write a SOAP server that receives XML requests, and creates XML responses.  (Unfortunately, it's not my project, so it's closed source, but that's another problem).

It turned out for me that creating (SOAP) XML documents is fairly simple, if you have a data structure that "fits" the schema.

I keep the envelope, since the response envelope is (almost) the same as the request envelope.  Then, since my data structure is a (possibly nested) dictionary, I create a string that turns this dictionary into key>value/key> items.  

This is a task that recursion makes simple, and I end up with the right structure.  This is all done in python code, and is currently fast enough for production use.

You can also (relatively) easily build lists as well, although depending upon your client, you may hit problems unless you give length hints.

For me, this was much simpler, since a dictionary is a much easier way of working than some custom class.  For the books, generating XML is much easier than parsing!
I would be a bit reluctant to use nested classes here.  What if you created an abstract base class for a "multimedia driver" to handle the back-end stuff (workhorse), and a separate class for the front-end work?  The front-end class could take a pointer/reference to an implemented driver class (for the appropriate media type and situation) and perform the abstract operations on the workhorse structure.

My philosophy would be to go ahead and make both structures accessible to the client in a polished way, just under the assumption they would be used in tandem.

I would reference something like a QTextDocument in Qt.  You provide a direct interface to the bare metal data handling, but pass the authority along to an object like a QTextEdit to do the manipulation.

One way of deciding whether or not to use nested classes is to think whether or not this class plays a supporting role or it's own part.

If it exists solely for the purpose of helping another class then I generally make it a nested class. There are a whole load of caveats to that, some of which seem contradictory but it all comes down to experience and gut-feeling.
sounds like a case where you could use the strategy pattern
Assuming your master page was named MyMaster:



Edit: since PeopleListView will be declared protected by default, you will either need to change this to public, or create a public property wrapper so that you can access it from your page.
I believe you could do this by using this.Master.FindControl or something similar, but you probably shouldn't - it requires the content page to know too much about the structure of the master page.

I would suggest another method, such as firing an event in the content area that the master could listen for and re-bind when fired.
Assuming the control is called "PeopleListView" on the master page



But @palmsey is more correct, especially if your page could have the possibility of more than one master page. Decouple them and use an event.

I've been doing a little research into this and whilst I'm not entirely sure its the cause I believe it is because Safari is not returning the full result set (hence cropping it).

I have been in dicussion with another developer and found the following post on Channel 9 as well which recommends making use of the SQL State service to store the viewstate avoiding the postback issue and also page size.

Does this seem like the best solution?
My first port of call would be to go through the elements on the page and see which controls:


Will still work when I switch ViewState off
Can be moved out of the page and into an AJAX call to be loaded when required


Failing that, and here's the disclaimer - I've never used this solution on a web-facing site - but in the past where I've wanted to eliminate massive ViewStates in limited-audience applications I have stored the ViewState in the Session.

It has worked for me because the hit to memory isn't significant for the number of users, but if you're running a fairly popular site I wouldn't recommend this approach.  However, if the Session solution works for Safari you could always detect the user agent and fudge appropriately.
While I second the Channel 9 solution, also be aware that in some hosted environments Safari is not considered an up-level browser. You may need to add it to your application's browscap in order to make use of some ASP.Net features. 

That was the root cause of some headaches we had for a client's site that used the ASP Menu control.

  Without the extra quotes around the input string parameter, the Javascript function thinks I'm passing in an integer.


Can you do some rudimentary string function to force JavaScript into changing it into a string? Like 


Try putting the extra text inside the server-side script block and concatenating.



Edit: I'm pretty sure you could just use double quotes outside the script block as well.
I had recently similar problem and the only way to solve it was to use plain old HTML codes for single (#39;) and double quotes (#34;).  

Source code was total mess of course but it worked.

Try



or



You could instead add the comma as the first thing inside your foreach.

if (sb.Length  0) sb.Append(",");

How about tracking whether you are on the first item, and only add a comma before the item if it is not the first one.



You could use LINQ to Objects:



Obviously that could all be done in one line, but it's a bit clearer on two.



Sorry, PHP specific example, but might help somebody.

  I like the idea of adding the comma by checking if the container is empty, but doesn't that mean more processing as it needs to check the length of the string on each occurrence?


You're prematurely optimizing, the performance hit would be negligible.
You could also make an array of c.Name data and use String.Join method to create your line.



This might not be as performant as the StringBuilder approach, but it definitely looks cleaner.

Also, you might want to consider using .CurrentCulture.TextInfo.ListSeparator instead of a hard-coded comma -- If your output is going to be imported into other applications, you might have problems with it. ListSeparator may be different across different cultures, and MS Excel at the very least, honors this setting. So:



How about some trimming?



Just a thought, but remember to handle comma's and quotation marks (") in the field values, otherwise your CSV file may break the consumers reader.
Don't forget our old friend "for". It's not as nice-looking as foreach but it has the advantage of being able to start at the second element.



You could also wrap the second Append in an "if" that tests whether the Name property contains a double-quote or a comma, and if so, escape them appropriately.

I don't know if I'd call it a good place to start, but if you want to be future ready, take a look at the windows presentation foundation which is built entirely for the purpose of programming GUI's for windows
My first experience writing simple GUI applications for Windows was with C# and Visual Studio.  The GUI-building interface is a simple drag and drop deal that generates skeleton methods based on potential user actions.  I only did fairly basic programming with this, but I imagine it would be an excellent place to start to learn the basics and extend into the more advanced capabilities as you go.
"take a look at the windows presentation foundation"...

In other words, Silverlight. If you don't want to go the MS route you might give Adobe's Flash/Flex a look see. Both Silverlight and Flash/Flex build RIA's. Which I think is where we are headed. They days of Office like apps are numbered
This is a rather broad question, as programming GUI applications in Windows can be done in so many ways.

There are two main parts to developing any GUI app: the language and the API/framework. Considering you're interested in learning to build Windows GUI apps, the language isn't really a point of focus for you. Hence, you should pick a language you already know and work with a framework or API that can be harnessed by your chosen language.

If you want to use C you're pretty much restricted to dealing with the Win32 API yourself, in which case reading Petzold or Richter would be great places to start. The Win32 API can be quite daunting, but it's well worth the effort to learn (imho). There are plenty of tutorials on Win32 on the web, and there's always MSDN, with a complete reference/guide to the Win32 API. Make sure you cover not just the API, but other areas such as resources/dialogs as they are building blocks for your Win32 application.

If you want to use C++ you have all of the options that you have when using C plus a few others. I'd recommend going with the Win32 API directly, and then moving on to a known framework such as MFC, Qt, wxWindows or GTK so that you can spend less time working with boilerplate code and instead focus on writing your application logic. The last 3 options I just listed have the added benefit of being cross-platform, so you don't have to worry too much about platform-specific issues. Given that you said you want to work with Windows, I'll assume you're keen to focus on that rather than cross-platform -- so go with MFC, but spend some time with the Win32 API first to get familiar with some of the concepts.

When dealing with MFC and the Win32 API, it's a good idea to try and get a solid understanding of the terminology prior to writing code. For example, you need to understand what the message pump is, and how it works. You need to know about concepts such as "owner-drawn controls", and subclassing. When you understand these things (and more), you'll find it easier to work with MFC because it uses similar terminology in its class interfaces (eg. you need to know what "translate messages" means before you can understand how and when to use PreTranslateMessage).

You could also use Managed C++ to write .NET GUI applications, but I've read in a few places that Managed C++ wasn't really intended to be used in this manner. Instead it should be used as a gateway between native/unmanaged code and managed code. If you're using .NET it's best to use a .NET language such as VB.NET or C# to build your GUIs.

So if you are going to use .NET, you currently have the choice of the WinForms library, or WPF. I personally feel that you'd be wasting time learning to build WinForms applications given that WPF is designed to replace it. Over time WPF will become more prevelant and Winforms will most likely die off. WPF has a much richer API set, and doesn't suffer from many of the limitations that Winforms does. If you do choose this route, however, you'll no doubt have to learn XAML, which is a markup language that drives WPF applications. This technology is coming of age, and there are many great places to learn about it. First, there are sites such as LearnWPF, and DrWPF which have some really great articles. Secondly, there are plenty of quality books on the topic.

So, to sum up, once you've picked your language and tech, the path is actually quite easy. Just pick up a book or two, read some blogs, get into some code samples.. and most importantly ... write code. Keep writing, keep making mistakes, and keep learning from them.

As a final note...


  In other words, Silverlight. If you don't want to go the MS route you might give Adobe's Flash/Flex a look see. Both Silverlight and Flash/Flex build RIA's. Which I think is where we are headed. They days of Office like apps are numbered


I don't agree at all. Silverlight is not the same as WPF. Silverlight is web-specific, and only has a subset of WPF's features. Given that the question asks for Windows GUI apps, Flash/Flex Rich Internet Apps are not really a fitting suggestion. I also don't agree that the days of Rich Client Applications (such as office) are numbered at all.

I hope that helps. Good luck :)
I won't help much but I remember that I was able to wrap MATLAB simulation into DLL and then call it from Delphi app. It work really well.

Anyway: good luck!!!
I know that Visual Studio itself (at least in 2003 version) references the IE dll directly to render the "Design View".

It may be worth looking into that.

Otherwise, I can't think of anything beyond the Web Browser control.
You can print from the command line using the following:


  rundll32.exe
  %WINDIR%\System32\mshtml.dll,PrintHTML
  "%1"


Where %1 is the file path of the html file to be printed.

If you don't need to print from memory (or can afford to write to the disk in a temp file) you can use:



N.B. This only works on Windows 2000 and above I think.
Depending on the scaling, the relative image pixel could be anywhere in a number of pixels.  For example, if the image is scaled down significantly, pixel 2, 10 could represent 2, 10 all the way up to 20, 100), so you'll have to do the math yourself and take full responsibility for any inaccuracies!  :-)
I wound up just implementing the translation manually.  The code's not too bad, but it did leave me wishing that they provided support for it directly.  I could see such a method being useful in a lot of different circumstances.

I guess that's why they added extension methods :)

In pseudocode:



To get the pixel position in the image, you'd just multiply by the actual image pixel dimensions, but the normalized coordinates allow you to address the original responder's point about resolving ambiguity on a case-by-case basis.

Scott Hanselman had a good Podcast about this, entitled:


  "The Past, Present and Future of .NET Unit Testing Frameworks"


:

Hanselminutes #112

I think NUnit is your best bet. With TestDriven.NET, you get great integration within VS.NET. (Resharper also has a unit test runner if you're using it).  NUnit it simple to use and follows an established paradigm. You'll also find plenty of projects/tutorials/guides using it which always helps.

Your other main choice is probably MBUnit, which is more and more position itself as the BDD framework of choice (in conjunction with Gallio http://www.gallio.org).

Visual Studio 2008 has a built in test project type that works in a similar way to NUnit, but obviously has much tighter integration with Visual Studio (can run on every build and shows the results in a similar way to the conversion results page when upgrading solution files), but it is obviously not as mature as NUnit as it's pretty new and I'm not sure about how it handles mocking.

But it would be worth looking into when your team moves to VS2008

mbUnit is worth alook, it has a set of features comparable to NUnit, it has its own GUI, or can be integrated into VS if you have Resharper. I would also recommend Rhino Mocks if you are doing any sort of TDD.

I would say mbUnit also, I like being able to run a single test many times just by specifying inputs and result right above the test function.  Horrible description of what I mean so here is a link that shows you what I mean.
Assuming you have the correct assemblies and a C# compiler you in theory can use whatever you want to edit the code and then just run the compiler by hand or using a build script. That being said it is a real pain doing .NET development without Visual Studio/SharpEdit/Monodevelop in my opinion.
There is nothing VS specific with the MVC framework - it is just a bunch of DLLs that you can use. The wizards in VS just build you a quick-start framework.
ASP.NET MVC is "bin-deployable" - there is nothing too clever to set up on the server either - just point the wildcard ISAPI filter to ASP.NET
I can't think of any cross platform way of what you want (or any guaranteed way full stop) but as you are using GetTickCount perhaps you aren't interested in cross platform :)

I'd use interprocess communications and set the intensive processes nice levels to get what you require but I'm not sure that's appropriate for your situation.

EDIT:
I agree with Bernard which is why I think a process rather than a thread might be more appropriate but it just might not suit your purposes.
On linux, you can change the scheduling priority of a thread with nice().
In Python monkey patching generally works by overwriting a class or functions signature with your own. Below is an example from the Zope Wiki:



That code will overwrite/create a method called speak on the class. In Jeff Atwood's recent post on monkey patching. He shows an example in C# 3.0 which is the current language I use for work.
I don't know Python syntax, but I know Ruby can do it, and it is rather trivial.  Let's say you want to add a method to Array that prints the length to standard out:



If you don't want to modify the whole class, you can just add the method to a single instance of the array, and no other arrays will have the method:



Just be aware of the issues involved in using this feature.  Jeff Atwood actually wrote about it not too long ago.
In Python, there is a difference between functions and bound methods.



Bound methods have been "bound" (how descriptive) to an instance, and that instance will be passed as the first argument whenever the method is called.

Callables that are attributes of a class (as opposed to an instance) are still unbound, though, so you can modify the class definition whenever you want:



Previously defined instances are updated as well (as long as they haven't overridden the attribute themselves):



The problem comes when you want to attach a method to a single instance:



The function is not automatically bound when it's attached directly to an instance:



To bind it, we can use the MethodType function in the types module:



This time other instances of the class have not been affected:



More information can be found by reading about descriptors and metaclass programming.

What you're looking for is setattr I believe.
Use this to set an attribute on an object.


why massive lookup table?



Justin Rogers has a "NumbersToEnglish" class which should do the job for you nicely!
Initial posting. http://weblogs.asp.net/justin_rogers/archive/2004/06/09/151675.aspx 
Finalized Source Code http://weblogs.asp.net/justin_rogers/articles/151757.aspx 
It does have a bit of an internal lookup table but I don't really know how you are going to be able to get away from that.
I use this code.It is VB code but you can easily translate it to C#. It works



Here is the code in c#



This should work reasonably well:



(Edited to make it considerably more concise.)

I believe you are talking about a content management system. The way I have delt with this situation in the past is to either:


Allow a page/content to define an extra custom stylesheet or
Allow a page/content to define inline style tags

What I would do for the particular case is:

i. Define the body as a server side control



ii. In your content aspx page, register the MasterPage with the register:



iii. In the Content Page, you can now simply use 



and have access to the control. Now, you can change whatever properties/style that you like!
This is what I came up with:

In the page load function:



Where 


  default_body = the id of the body tag.


If you are not totally tied to pure C and can use string.h there is strchr()
See here
strstr returns a pointer to the found character, so you could use pointer arithmetic:  (Note: this code not tested for its ability to compile, it's one step away from pseudocode.)



EDIT: strchr is better only for one char. 
Pointer aritmetics says "Hellow!":



Important: strchr () returns NULL if no string is found

You can use strstr to accomplish what you want. Example:



This produces the result:


I think that


  size_t strcspn ( const char * str1, const char * str2 );


is what you want. Here is an example pulled from here:


If you are looking for user facing interaction, stick with xml. It has more support, understanding, and general acceptance currently. If it's internal, I would say that protocol buffers are a great idea.
Maybe in a few years as more tools come out to support protocol buffers, then start looking towards that for a public facing api. Until then... JSON?
Protocol buffers are intended to optimize communications between machines. They are really not intended for human interaction. Also, the format is binary, so it could not replace XML in that use case. 

I would also recommend JSON as being the most compact text-based format.
The previous answer is fine, but I'm one of those guys that's firmly against mixing behavior with presentation (putting JavaScript in my HTML) so I prefer to put my event handling logic in my JavaScript files. Additionally, not all browsers implement event (or e) the same way. You may want to do a check prior to running any logic:


I'd rather tab indentation not work than breaking tabbing between form items.

If you want to indent to put in code in the Markdown box, use Ctrl+K (or K on a Mac).

In terms of actually stopping the action, jQuery (which Stack Overflow uses) will stop an event from bubbling when you return false from an event callback. This makes life easier for working with multiple browsers.

I would advise against changing the default behaviour of a key.  I do as much as possible without touching a mouse, so if you make my tab key not move to the next field on a form I will be very aggravated.

A shortcut key could be useful however, especially with large code blocks and nesting.  Shift-TAB is a bad option because that normally takes me to the previous field on a form.  Maybe a new button on the WMD editor to insert a code-TAB, with a shortcut key, would be possible?
Calling process.Start on the Mailto: protocol (as shown below) will give you basic functionality but not attachments.



You can do this approach with attachment paths but this option only works with some old version of outlook such as 98. I assume this is due to the potential securty risk. 

If anyone does use outlook.exe it will give security warnings under outlook 2003 (and 2007 Dependant on settings). 
Easy one! "\t"
Edit: In fact, here's something official: Escape Sequences
If he's interested, aren't the minor details the good parts?  Using python, you've already cut the GUI off of it so that confusion is gone.  Why not pick a project, a game or something, and implement it.  The classic hi-lo number guessing game can be simply implemented from the command line in 20-30 lines of code (depending on language of course)  and gives you variables, conditions, loops, and user input.
First of all, start out like everyone else does: with a Hello World program.  It's simple, and it gives them a basic feel for the layout of a program.  Try and remember back to when you were first programming, and how difficult some of the concepts were - start simple.  

After Hello World, move on to creating some basic variables, arithmetic, then onto boolean logic and if/else statements.  If you've got one of your old programming textbooks, check out some of the early examples and have him run through those.  Just don't try to introduce too much all at once, or it will be overwhelming and confusing.
I would actually argue to pick a simpler language with fewer instructions.  I personally learned on BASIC at home, as did Jeff.  This way, you don't have to delve into more complicated issues like object oriented programming, or even procedures if you don't want to.  Once he can handle simple control flow, then move on to something a little more complicated, but only simple features.

Maybe start with very simple programs that just add 2 numbers, and then grow to something that might require a branch, then maybe reading input and responding to it, then some kind of loop, and start combining them all together.  Just start little and work your way up.  Don't do any big projects until he can grasp the fundamentals (otherwise it may very well be too daunting and he could give up midway).  Once he's mastered BASIC or whatever you choose, move on to something more complicated.

Just my $0.02
Something you should be very mindful of while teaching your brother to program is for him not to rely too heavily on you. Often when I find myself helping others they will begin to think of me as answer book to all of their questions and instead of experimenting to find an answer they simply ask me. Often the best teacher is experimentation and every time your brother has a question like "What will happen if I add 2 to a string?" you should tell him to try it out and see for himself. Also I have noticed that when I cannot get a concept through to someone, it helps to see some sample code where we can look at each segment individually and explain it piece by piece. As a side note people new to programming often have trouble with the idea of object oriented programming, they will say they understand it when you teach it to them but will not get a clear concept of it until actually implementing it.
You could try using Alice.  It's a 3D program designed for use in introductory programming classes.

The two biggest obstacles for new programmers are often:


syntax errors
motivation (writing something meaningful and fun rather than contrived)


Alice uses a drag and drop interface for constructing programs, avoiding the possibility of syntax errors.  Alice lets you construct 3D worlds and have your code control (simple) 3D characters and animation, which is usually a lot more interesting than implementing linked lists.

Experienced programmers may look down at Alice as a toy and scoff at dragging and dropping lines of code, but research shows that this approach works.

Disclaimer: I worked on Alice.
A good python course is MIT's A Gentle Introduction to Programming Using Python.  It's all free online, and you don't have to be an MIT uberstudent to understand it.


  Edit [Justin Standard]
  
  This course uses this free online book: How To Think Like a Computer Scientist
  I'm definitely finding it quite useful.


I've had to work with several beginner (never wrote a line of code) programmers, and I'll be doing an after school workshop with high school students this fall. This is the closest thing I've got to documentation. It's still a work in progress, but I hope it helps.

1) FizzBuzz. Start with command line programs. You can write some fun games, or tools, very quickly, and you learn all of the language features very quickly without having to learn the GUI tools first. These early apps should be simple enough that you won't need to use any real debugging tools to make them work.

If nothing else things like FizzBuzz are good projects. Your first few apps should not have to deal with DBs, file system, configuration, ect. These are concepts which just confuse most people, and when you're just learning the syntax and basic framework features you really don't need more complexity.

Some projects:


Hello World!
Take the year of my birth, and calculate my age (just (now - then) no month corrections). (simple math, input, output)
Ask for a direction(Up, down, left, right), then tell the user their fate (fall in a hole, find a cake, ect). (Boolean logic)
FizzBuzz, but count once every second. (Loops, timers, and more logic)
Depending on their age some really like an app which calls the users a random insult at some interval. (Loops, arrays, timers, and random if you make the interval random)


2) Simple Project Once they have a good grasp of language features, you can start a project(simple, fun games work good.). You should try to have the first project be able to be completed within 6-12 hours. Don't spend time to architect it early. Let them design it even if it sucks. If it falls apart, talk about what happened and why it failed, then pick another topic and start again.

This is where you start introducing the debugging capabilities of your tools. Even if you can see the problem by reading the code you should teach them how to use the tools, and then show them how you could see it. That serves the dual purpose of teaching the debugging tools and teaching how to ID errors without tools.

Once, or if, the project gets functional you can use it to introduce refactoring tools. Its good if you can then expand the project with some simple features which you never planned for. This usually means refactoring and significant debugging, since very few people write even half decent code their first time.

Some projects:


Hangman game
Experimenting with robotics(Vex and Mindstorms are options) 


3) Real Project  Start a real project which may take some time. Use proper source control, and make a point to have a schedule. Run this project like a real project, if nothing else its good experience having to deal with the tools.

Obviously you need to adjust this for each person. The most important thing I've found is to make even the first simple apps apply to what the person is interested in. 

Some projects:


Tetris
Text file based blog engine
More advanced robotics work


I used to teach programming and your brother has one main advantage over most of my students he wants to learn :)

If you decide to go with C a friend has a site that has the sort of programs those of use from older generations remember as basic type-ins.  The more complex of them use ncurses which sort of negates their use as a teaching aid somewhat but some of them are tiny little things and you can learn loads without being taught to.

Personally I think Python and Ruby would make great first languages.

EDIT:
list of beginner programming assignments appeared overnight might be just what you are looking for.
I think the "wisdom of crowds" work here. How did most people learn how to program? Many claim that they did so by copying programs of others, usually games they wanted to play in BASIC.

Maybe that route will work with him too?
If you want to teach the basics of programming, without being language specific, there is an application called Scratch that was created in MIT. It's designed to help people  develop programming skills. As users create Scratch projects, they learn to create conditions, loops, etc. There is a also a community of scratch projects, form which projects can be downloaded - that way you can explore other people's programs and see how they were built.
I recently wrote an article titled How to teach your girlfriend programming, it has little to do with girlfriends and everything about teaching something technical to someone that does not understand it.

I'm told it's also funny.

It really depends on your brother's learning style. Many people learn faster by getting their hands dirty  just getting into it, crystallising the concepts and the big picture as they progress and build their knowledge.

Me, I prefer to start with the big picture and drill down into the nitty-gritty. The first thing I wanted to know was how it all fits together then all that Object-oriented gobbledygook, then about classes  instances and so-on. I like to know the underlying concepts and a bit of theory before I learn the syntax. I had a bit of an advantage because I wrote some games in BASIC 20 years ago but nothing much since.

Perhaps it is useful to shadow a production process by starting with an overall mission statement, then a plan and/or flowchart, then elaborate into some pseudo code (leaning towards the syntax you will ultimately use) before actually writing the code.

The golden rule here is to suss out your student's leaning style.
Try Ruby (In Your Browser)
I agree with Leac.  I actually play with Scratch sometimes if I'm bored.  It's a pretty fun visual way of looking at code.

How it works is, they give you a bunch of "blocks" (these look like legos) which you can stack.  And by stacking these blocks, and interacting with the canvas (where you put your sprites, graphics), you can create games, movies, slideshows... it's really interesting.

When it's complete you can upload it right to the Scratch websites, which is a youtube-ish portal for Scratch applications.  Not only that, but you can download any submission on the website, and learn from or extend other Scratch applications.
This is a fantastic book which my little brothers used to learn:

Of course, the most important thing is to start on a real, useful program of some kind IMMEDIATELY after finishing the book.
I recommend starting them off with C/C++.  I find that it is a good foundation for just about every other language.  Also, the different versions of BASIC can be pretty dodgy, at best, and have no real correlation to actual programming.
I think learning to program because you want to learn to program will never be as good as learning to program because you want to DO something. If you can find something that your brother is interested in making work because he wants to make it work, you can just leave him with Google and he'll do it. And he'll have you around to check he's going along the right path.

I think one of the biggest problems with teaching programming in the abstract is that it's not got a real-world context that the learner can get emotionally invested in. Programming is hard, and there has to be some real payoff to make it worth the effort of doing it. In my case, I'd done computer science at uni, learned Pascal and COBOL there, and learned BASIC at home before that, but I never really got anywhere with it until I became a self-employed web designer back in the 90s and my clients needed functionality on their web sites, and were willing to pay about 10x more for functionality than for design. Putting food on the table is a hell of a motivator!

So I learned Perl, then ASP/VBScript, then JavaScript, then Flash/ActionScript then PHP - all in order to make the stuff I wanted to happen.
How to Design Programs

Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs . Videos lectures at http://www.swiss.ai.mit.edu/classes/6.001/abelson-sussman-lectures/
I think that once he has the basics (variables, loops, etc) down you should try to help him find something specific that he is interested in and help him learn the necessities to make it happen.  I know that I am much more inclined and motivated to do something if it's of interest to me.  Also, make sure to let him struggle though some of the tougher problems, nothing is more satisfying than the moment you figure it out on your own. 
I'd just let him write tons of code. Let him drive in everything you guys do, and just be available to answer questions.

Believe it or not, after a few months of writings tons of crappy code, he'll start to get the idea and start writing better programs. At that point, you can get bogged down in details (memory, etc), and also talk about general design principles.

I've heard that what separates the great artists from the mediocre ones, is that every time they practice, they improve on something, no matter how small. Let your brother practice, and he'll improve every time he sits down at the keyboard.


  Edit: [Justin Standard]
  
  Esteban, this reminds me of a recent coding horror post, and I do think you are right.  But I think its still worthwhile to find methods to guide his practice.  No question, I want him writing as much code as he knows how to do.  Thats one reason I'm asking for sample projects.


I was taught by learning how to solve problems in a language agnostic way using flowcharts and PDL (Program Design Language).  After a couple weeks of that, I learned to convert the PDL I had written to a language.  I am glad I learned that way because I have spent the majority of my years programming, solving problems without being tied to a language.  What language I use has always been an implementation detail and not part of the design. 

Having to solve the problem by breaking it down into it's basic steps is a key skill.  I think it is one of the things that separates those that can program from those that can't.

As far as how you tackle the order of concepts of a language I believe the easiest way is to decide that is to have a project in mind and tackle the concepts as they are needed.  This lets you apply them as they are needed on something that you are interested in doing.  When learning a language it is good to have several simple projects in mind and a few with progressive complexity.  Deciding on those will help you map out the concepts that are needed and their order.
With the "Built in" stuff, you can't, as using 1.0.* or 1.0.0.* will replace the revision and build numbers with a coded date/timestamp, which is usually also a good way. 

For more info, see the Assembly Linker Documentation in the /v tag.

As for automatically incrementing numbers, use the AssemblyInfo Task:

AssemblyInfo Task

This can be configured to automatically increment the build number.

There are 2 Gotchas:


Each of the 4 numbers in the Version string is limited to 65535. This is a Windows Limitation and unlikely to get fixed.

Why are build numbers limited to 65535?

Using with with Subversion requires a small change:

Using MSBuild to generate assembly version info at build time (including SubVersion fix)



Retrieving the Version number is then quite easy:





And, to clarify: In .net or at least in C#, the build is actually the THIRD number, not the fourth one as some people (for example Delphi Developers who are used to Major.Minor.Release.Build) might expect.

In .net, it's Major.Minor.Build.Revision.

What source control system are you using? 

Almost all of them have some form of $ Id $ tag that gets expanded when the file is checked in.

I usually use some form of hackery to display this as the version number.

The other alternative is use to use the date as the build number: 080803-1448
Some time ago I wrote a quick and dirty exe that would update the version #'s in an assemblyinfo.{cs/vb} - I also have used rxfind.exe (a simple and powerful regex-based search replace tool) to do the update from a command line as part of the build process.  A couple of other helpfule hints:


separate the assemblyinfo into product parts (company name, version, etc.) and assembly specific parts (assembly name etc.).  See here
Also - i use subversion, so I found it helpful to set the build number to subversion revision number thereby making it really easy to always get back to the codebase that generated the assembly (e.g. 1.4.100.1502 was built from revision 1502).

You can use ImageMagick's convert utility for this, see some examples in http://studio.imagemagick.org/pipermail/magick-users/2002-May/002636.html
:



  
  Will convert a two page PDF file into [2] jpeg files: taxes.jpg.0,
  taxes.jpg.1
  
  I can also convert these JPEGS to a thumbnail as follows:


  
  I can even convert the PDF directly to a jpeg thumbnail as follows:


  
  This will result in a thumbnail.jpg.0 and thumbnail.jpg.1 for the two
  pages.


While I haven't used a flash object inside a windows form application myself, I do know that it's possible.
In Visual studio on your toolbox, choose to add a new component.
Then in the new window that appears choose the "COM Components" tab to get a list in which you can find the "Shockwave Flash Object"

Once added to the toolbox, simply use the control as you would use any other "standard" control from visual studio.

three simple commands are available to interact with the control:


AxShockwaveFlash1.Stop()
AxShockwaveFlash1.Movie = FilePath 
"\FileName.swf"
AxShockwaveFlash1.Play()


which, I think, are all self explanatory.


  It would be great to be able to load
  the flash content from a stream of
  sorts rather than a file on disk.


I just saw you are also looking for a means to load the content from a stream,
and because I'm not really sure that is possible with the shockwave flash object I will give you another option (two actually).

the first is the one I would advise you to use only when necessary, as it uses the full blown "webbrowser component" (also available as an extra toolbox item), which is like trying to shoot a fly with a bazooka.
of course it will work, as the control will act as a real browser window (actually the internet explorer browser), but its not really meant to be used in the way you need it.

the second option is to use something I just discovered while looking for more information about playing flash content inside a windows form. F-IN-BOX is a commercial solution that will also play content from a given website URL. (The link provided will direct you to the .NET code you have to use).
Sven, you reached the same conclusion as I did: I found the Shockwave Flash Object, all be it from a slightly different route, but was stumped on how to load the files from somewhere other than file on disk/URL. The F-IN-BOX, although just a wrapper of the Shockwave Flash Object seems to provide much more functionality, which may just help me!

Shooting flys with bazookas may be fun, but an embeded web brower is not the path that I am looking for. :)

There was a link on Adobe's site that talked about "Embedding and Communicating with the Macromedia Flash Player in C# Windows Applications" but they seem to have removed it :(

One implementation of this problem is to attempt to call the parameter-less constructor of the Type:



Here is the same approach, contained in a generic method:



The Activator class within the root System namespace is pretty powerful.

There are a lot of overloads for passing parameters to the constructor and such. Check out the documentation at: 


  http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.activator.createinstance.aspx


Here are some simple examples:



open up a terminal (Applications-Utilities-Terminal) and type this in:



This will spit out every file that has the name you want.

Warning: there may be alot to wade through.
I haven't been able to find anything that does this directly.  I think you'll have to iterate through the various font folders on the system: /System/Library/Fonts, /Library/Fonts, and there can probably be a user-level directory as well ~/Library/Fonts.

Unfortunately the only API that isn't deprecated is located in the ApplicationServices framework, which doesn't have a bridge support file, and thus isn't available in the bridge. If you're wanting to use ctypes, you can use ATSFontGetFileReference after looking up the ATSFontRef.

Cocoa doesn't have any native support, at least as of 10.5, for getting the location of a font.
Java autoboxing/unboxing doesn't go to the extent to allow you to dereference a primitive, so your compiler prevents it. Your compiler still knows myInt as a primitive.  There's a paper about this issue at jcp.org.

Autoboxing is mainly useful during assignment or parameter passing -- allowing you to pass a primitive as an object (or vice versa), or assign a primitive to an object (or vice versa).

So unfortunately, you would have to do it like this: (kudos Patrick, I switched to your way)



Ditto on what Justin said, but you should do this instead:



It saves an allocation or two and is more readable.


  seems like a shortcoming of the
  specification to me


There are more shortcomings and this is a subtle topic. Check this out:



Here "long" would be printed (haven't checked it myself), because the compiler choses widening over autoboxing. Be careful when using autoboxing or don't use it at all!
That actually sounds like IIS's Low level. If it is, then you won't be able to write to any file, not just the web.config.

Here are the levels from IIS's help file:





Full (internal) - Specifies unrestricted permissions. Grants the ASP.NET application permissions to access any resource that is subject to operating system security. All privileged operations are supported.


High (web_hightrust.config) - Specifies a high level of code access security, which means that the application cannot do any one of the following things by default:

  Call unmanaged code.
  Call serviced components.
  Write to the event log.
  Access Message Queuing service queues.
  Access ODBC, OleDb, or Oracle data sources.


Medium (web_mediumtrust.config) - Specifies a medium level of code access security, which means that, in addition to High Trust Level restrictions, the ASP.NET application cannot do any of the following things by default:

Access files outside the application directory.
Access the registry.
Make network or Web service calls.


Low (web_lowtrust.config) - Specifies a low level of code access security, which means that, in addition to Medium Trust Level restrictions, the application cannot do any of the following things by default:

Write to the file system.
Call the Assert method.


Minimal (web_minimaltrust.config) - Specifies a minimal level of code access security, which means that the application has only execute permissions.




I would suggest that if you are dead set on having an installer, have it create a web.config in memory that the user can save locally and FTP up afterward.

In Java, the 'int' type is a primitive , whereas the 'Integer' type is an object.

In C#, the 'int' type is the same as System.Int32 and is a value type (ie more like the java 'int'). An integer (just like any other value types) can be boxed ("wrapped") into an object. 



The differences between objects and primitives are somewhat beyond the scope of this question, but to summarize: 

Objects provide facilities for polymorphism, are passed by reference (or more accurately have references passed by value), and are allocated from the heap. Conversely, primitives are immutable types that are passed by value and are often allocated from the stack.

Well, in Java an int is a primitive while an Integer is an Object. Meaning, if you made a new Integer:



You could call some method on i:



Whereas with an int:



You cannot call any methods on it, because it is simply a primitive. So:



would produce an error, because int is not an object.

int is one of the few primitives in Java (along with char and some others). I'm not 100% sure, but I'm thinking that the Integer object more or less just has an int property and a whole bunch of methods to interact with that property (like the toString() method for example). So Integer is a fancy way to work with an int (Just as perhaps String is a fancy way to work with a group of chars).

I know that Java isn't C, but since I've never programmed in C this is the closest I could come to the answer. Hope this helps!

Integer object javadoc

Integer Ojbect vs. int primitive comparison

In C#, int is just an alias for System.Int32, string for System.String, double for System.Double etc...

Personally I prefer int, string, double, etc. because they don't require a using System; statement :) A silly reason, I know...

I'll add to the excellent answers given above, and talk about boxing and unboxing, and how this applies to Java (although C# has it too). I'll use just Java terminology, because I am more au fait with that.

As the answers mentioned, int is just a number (called the unboxed type), whereas Integer is an object (which contains the number, hence a boxed type). In Java terms, that means (apart from not being able to call methods on int), you cannot store int or other non-object types in collections (List, Map, etc.). In order to store them, you must first box them up in its corresponding boxed type.

Java 5 onwards have something called auto-boxing and auto-unboxing which allow the boxing/unboxing to be done behind the scenes. Compare and contrast: Java 5 version:



Java 1.4 or earlier (no generics either):



It must be noted that despite the brevity in the Java 5 version, both versions generate identical bytecode. Thus, although auto-boxing and auto-unboxing is very convenient because you write less code, these operations do happen behind the scenes, with the same runtime costs, so you still have to be aware of their existence.

Hope this helps!
I'll just post here since some of the other posts are slightly inaccurate in relation to C#.

Correct: int is an alias for System.Int32.
Wrong: float is not an alias for System.Float, but for System.Single

Basically, int is a reserved keyword in the C# programming language, and is an alias for the System.Int32 value type.

float and Float is not the same however, as the right system type for ''float'' is System.Single. There are some types like this that has reserved keywords that doesn't seem to match the type names directly.

In C# there is no difference between ''int'' and ''System.Int32'', or any of the other pairs or keywords/system types, except for when defining enums. With enums you can specify the storage size to use and in this case you can only use the reserved keyword, and not the system runtime type name.

Wether the value in the int will be stored on the stack, in memory, or as a referenced heap object depends on the context and how you use it.

This declaration in a method:



defines a variable i of type System.Int32, living in a register or on the stack, depending on optimizations. The same declaration in a type (struct or class) defines a member field. The same declaration in a method argument list defines a parameter, with the same storage options as for a local variable. (note that this paragraph is not valid if you start pulling iterator methods into the mix, these are different beasts altogether)

To get a heap object, you can use boxing:



this will create a boxed copy of the contents of i on the heap. In IL you can access methods on the heap object directly, but in C# you need to cast it back to an int, which will create another copy. Thus, the object on the heap cannot easily be changed in C# without creating a new boxed copy of a new int value. (Ugh, this paragraph doesn't read all that easily.)

This has already been answered for Java, here's the C# answer:

"Integer" is not a valid type name in C# and "int" is just an alias for System.Int32. Also, unlike in Java (or C++) there aren't any special primitive types in C#, every instance of a type in C# (including int) is an object. Here's some demonstrative code:


Regarding Java 1.5 and autoboxing there is an important "quirk" that comes to play when comparing Integer objects.

In Java, Integer objects with the values -128 to 127 are immutable (that is, for one particular integer value, say 23, all Integer objects instantiated through your program with the value 23 points to the exact same object).

Example, this returns true:



While this returns false:



The == compares by reference (does the variables point to the same object).

This result may or may not differ depending on what JVM you are using. The specification autoboxing for Java 1.5 requires that integers (-128 to 127) always box to the same wrapper object. 

A solution? =) One should always use the Integer.equals() method when comparing Integer objects.



More info at java.net Example at bexhuff.com
In Java there are two basic types in the JVM. 1) Primitive types and 2) Reference Types. int is a primitive type and Integer is a class type (which is kind of reference type).

Primitive values do not share state with other primitive values. A variable whose type is a primitive type always holds a primitive value of that type.



An object is a dynamically created class instance or an array. The reference values (often just references) are pointers to these objects and a special null reference, which refers to no object. There may be many references to the same object.



Also in Java everything is passed by value. With objects the value that is passed is the reference to the object. So another difference between int and Integer in java is how they are passed in method calls. For example in



The variable two is passed as the primitive integer type 2. Whereas in



The variable two is passed as a reference to an object that holds the integer value 2.



@WolfmanDragon:
Pass by reference would work like so:



When increment is called it passes a reference (pointer) to variable a. And the increment function directly modifies variable a.

And for object types it would work as follows:



Do you see the difference now?

One more thing that I don't see in previous answers:
In Java the primitive wrappers classes like Integer, Double, Float, Boolean... and String are suposed to be invariant, so that when you pass an instance of those classes the invoked method couldn't alter your data in any way, in opositin with most of other classes, which internal data could be altered by its public methods. So that this classes only has 'getter' methods, no 'setters', besides the constructor.

In a java program String literals are stored in a separate portion of heap memory, only a instance for literal, to save memory reusing those instances

Consider using a ManualResetEvent to block the main thread at the end of its processing, and call Reset() on it once the timer's processing has finished.  If this is something that needs to run constantly, consider moving this into a service process instead of a console app.

You can use something like Console.ReadLine() to block the main thread, so other background threads (like timer threads) will still work. You may also use an AutoResetEvent to block the execution, then (when you need to) you can call Set() method on that AutoResetEvent object to release the main thread. Also ensure that your reference to Timer object doesn't go out of scope and garbage collected.

If you are using a button or hyperlink or something to trigger the popup to show, could you also add an additional handler to the onClick event of the trigger which should still fire the modal popup and run the javascript at the same time?
The ModalPopupExtender modifies the button/hyperlink that you tell it to be the "trigger" element. The onclick script I add triggers before the popup is shown.  I want script to fire after the popup is shown.

Also, still leaves me with the problem of when I show the modal from server side.
hmmm... I'm pretty sure that there's a shown event for the MPE... this is off the top of my head, but I think you can add an event handler to the shown event on page_load



i'm not sure tho if this will help you with calling it from the server side tho
I haven't thought too hard about this, but I reckon you could get a Custom Treeview in WPF to do what you want. I was reading an article on code project a while back that implemented an org chart this way...
I'm all for writing your own software when something doesn't suit your needs and a frequent re-inventer of the wheel.  But this honestly seems like one of those things were the solution is readily available, in this case in the form of Family Tree Maker  And at a mere $40 I would venture to guess that you'd come out ahead compared to the hours you would spend trying to get your own program doing exactly what you need.

I currently use the software and it works great. 

Now, if your interest in writing it partly for the purpose of just doing it because you can and to learn something...then by all means I salute your will to learn and hope you find the control you are looking for.
Geni is probably what your looking for.
If you're really looking for an application that you can modify try out Family.Show on CodePlex.
Take a look at Creating and Using URL Monikers , About Asynchronous Pluggable Protocols and Registering an Application to a URL Protocol from MSDN 
Here's some old Delphi code we used as a way to get shortcuts in a web application to start a windows program locally for the user.


A tidier way is to create separate forms for each 'pane' and, in each form constructor, set



That way, each of these forms can be laid out in its own designer, instantiated one or more times at runtime, and added to the empty area like a normal control.

Perhaps the main form could use a SplitContainer with a static TreeView in one panel, and space to add these forms in the other. Once they are added, they could be flipped through using Hide/Show or BringToFront/SendToBack methods.



Greg Hurlman wrote:


  Why not just show/hide the proper container when a node is selected in the grid? Have the containers all sized appropriately in the same spot, and hide all but the default, which would be preselected in the grid on load.


Unfortunately, that's what I'm trying to avoid. I'm looking for an easy way to handle the interface during design time, with minimal reformatting code needed to get it working during run time.

I like Duncan's answer because it means the design of each node's interface can be kept completely separate. This means I don't get overlap on the snapping guidelines and other design time advantages.
Static methods cannot be inherited or overridden, and that is why they can't be abstract. Since static methods are defined on the type, not the instance, of a class, they must be called explicitly on that type. So when you want to call a method on a child class, you need to use its name to call it. This makes inheritance irrelevant.

Assume you could, for a moment, inherit static methods. Imagine this scenario:



If you call Base.GetNumber(), which method would be called? Which value returned? Its pretty easy to see that without creating instances of objects, inheritance is rather hard. Abstract methods without inheritance are just methods that don't have a body, so can't be called.
To add to the previous explanations, static method calls are bound to a specific method at compile-time, which rather rules out polymorphic behavior.
Static methods are not instantiated as such, they're just available without an object reference.

A call to a static method is done through the class name, not through an object reference, and the IL code to call it will call the abstract method through the name of the class that defined it, not necessarily the name of the class you used.

Let me show an example.

With the following code:



If you call B.Test, like this:



Then the actual code inside the Main method is as follows:



As you can see, the call is made to A.Test, because it was the A class that defined it, and not to B.Test, even though you can write the code that way.

If you had class types, like in Delphi, where you can make a variable referring to a type and not an object, you would have more use for virtual and thus abstract static methods (and also constructors), but they aren't available and thus static calls are non-virtual in .NET.

I realize that the IL designers could allow the code to be compiled to call B.Test, and resolve the call at runtime, but it still wouldn't be virtual, as you would still have to write some kind of class name there.

Virtual methods, and thus abstract ones, are only useful when you're using a variable which, at runtime, can contain many different types of objects, and you thus want to call the right method for the current object you have in the variable. With static methods you need to go through a class name anyway, so the exact method to call is known at compile time because it can't and won't change.

Thus, virtual/abstract static methods are not available in .NET.


Try using the System.Net.Dns class
Well, here's how we do it on Stack Overflow.

var ts = new TimeSpan(DateTime.UtcNow.Ticks - dt.Ticks);
double delta = Math.Abs(ts.TotalSeconds);

if (delta  60)
{
  return ts.Seconds == 1 ? "one second ago" : ts.Seconds + " seconds ago";
}
if (delta  120)
{
  return "a minute ago";
}
if (delta  2700) // 45 * 60
{
  return ts.Minutes + " minutes ago";
}
if (delta  5400) // 90 * 60
{
  return "an hour ago";
}
if (delta  86400) // 24 * 60 * 60
{
  return ts.Hours + " hours ago";
}
if (delta  172800) // 48 * 60 * 60
{
  return "yesterday";
}
if (delta  2592000) // 30 * 24 * 60 * 60
{
  return ts.Days + " days ago";
}
if (delta  31104000) // 12 * 30 * 24 * 60 * 60
{
  int months = Convert.ToInt32(Math.Floor((double)ts.Days / 30));
  return months = 1 ? "one month ago" : months + " months ago";
}
int years = Convert.ToInt32(Math.Floor((double)ts.Days / 365));
return years = 1 ? "one year ago" : years + " years ago";


Suggestions? Comments? Ways to improve this algorithm?

@jeff

IMHO yours seems a little long.  However it does seem a little more robust with support for "yesterday" and "years".  But in my experience when this is used the person is most likely to view the content in the first 30 days.  It is only the really hardcore people that come after that.  So that is why I usually elect to keep this short and simple.

This is the method I am currently using on one of my websites.  This only returns a relative day, hour, time.  And then the user has to slap on "ago" in the output.


Jeff, your code is nice but could be clearer with constants (as suggested in Code Complete).

const int SECOND = 1;
const int MINUTE = 60 * SECOND;
const int HOUR = 60 * MINUTE;
const int DAY = 24 * HOUR;
const int MONTH = 30 * DAY;

var ts = new TimeSpan(DateTime.UtcNow.Ticks - yourDate.Ticks);
double delta = Math.Abs(ts.TotalSeconds);

if (delta  1 * MINUTE)
  return ts.Seconds == 1 ? "one second ago" : ts.Seconds + " seconds ago";

if (delta  2 * MINUTE)
  return "a minute ago";

if (delta  45 * MINUTE)
  return ts.Minutes + " minutes ago";

if (delta  90 * MINUTE)
  return "an hour ago";

if (delta  24 * HOUR)
  return ts.Hours + " hours ago";

if (delta  48 * HOUR)
  return "yesterday";

if (delta  30 * DAY)
  return ts.Days + " days ago";

if (delta  12 * MONTH)
{
  int months = Convert.ToInt32(Math.Floor((double)ts.Days / 30));
  return months = 1 ? "one month ago" : months + " months ago";
}
else
{
  int years = Convert.ToInt32(Math.Floor((double)ts.Days / 365));
  return years = 1 ? "one year ago" : years + " years ago";
}


I thought I'd give this a shot using classes and polymorphism. I had a previous iteration which used sub-classing which ended up having way too much overhead. I've switched to a more flexible delegate / public property object model which is significantly better. My code is very slightly more accurate, I wish I could come up with a better way to generate "months ago" that didn't seem too over-engineered.

I think I'd still stick with Jeff's if-then cascade because it's less code and it's simpler (it's definitely easier to ensure it'll work as expected).

For the below code PrintRelativeTime.GetRelativeTimeMessage(TimeSpan ago) returns the relative time message (e.g. "yesterday").


The size of the file is sent as the Content-Length header. Here is how to get it with urllib:


Using the returned-urllib-object method info(), you can get various information on the retrived document. Example of grabbing the current Google logo:



It's a dict, so to get the size of the file, you do urllibobject.info()['Content-Length']



And to get the size of the local file (for comparison), you can use the os.stat() command:


Also if the server you are connecting to supports it, look at Etags and the If-Modified-Since and If-None-Match headers.

Using these will take advantage of the webserver's caching rules and will return a 304 Not Modified status code if the content hasn't changed.
I have reproduced what you are seeing:



Outputs this:



What am I doing wrong here? Is os.stat().st_size not returning the correct size?



Edit:
OK, I figured out what the problem was:



this outputs:



Make sure you are opening both files for binary read/write.


Would use double.TryParse, it has performance benefits.

I'd personally use int.tryparse, then double.tryparse.  Performance on those methods is quite fast.  They both return a Boolean.  If both fail then you have a string, per how you defined your data. 
I would say, don't worry so much about such micro performance.  It is much better to just get something to work, and then make it as clear and concise and easy to read as possible.  The worst thing you can do is sacrifice readability for an insignificant amount of performance.

In the end, the best way to deal with performance issues is to save them for when you have data that indicates there is an actual performance problem... otherwise you will spend a lot of time micro-optimizing and actually cause higher maintenance costs for later on.

If you find this parsing situation is really the bottleneck in your application, THEN is the time to try and figure out what the fastest way to solve the problem is.  I think Jeff (and many others) have blogged about this sort of thing a lot.
If the data modification is not too time consuming (meaning, if the main purpose of the background thread is not the actual data modification), try moving the section that modifies the data to a delegate and Invoke'ing that delegate.

If the actual heavy work is on the data, you'll probably have to create a deep copy of this data to pass to the background thread, which will send the processed data back to the UI thread via Invoke again.
You should be able to do something like:



InvokeRequired is a property on Controls to see if you are on the correct thread, then Invoke will invoke the delegate on the correct thread.

UPDATE: Actually, at my last job we did something like this:



which removes the need for the else block and kind of tightens up the code.
As I don't have a test case to go from I can't guarantee this solution, but it seems to me that a scenario similar to the one used to update progress bars in different threads (use a delegate) would be suitable here.



If the data binding needs to be done by a particular thread, then let that thread do the work!
Re: 2004

No, you will only move the code that changes the data into the delegate function (because the data change is what triggers the control update). Other than that, you should not have to write anything extra.

If the thread call is "illegal" (i.e. the DataBind call affects controls that were not created in the thread it is being called from) then you need to create a delegate so that even if the decision / preparation for the DataBind is not done in the control-creating thread, any resultant modification of them (i.e. DataBind()) will be.

You would call my code from the worker thread like so:



This would then cause the original thread to do the binding, which (presuming it is the thread that created the controls) should work.
In WPF and Silverlight the binding infrastructure takes care of the switching to the UI thread.
NUnit is always a favorite of mine.  However if you are using TFS as your source control I suggest you stick with the Microsoft Stack.  
For a Mock Object library, I've found the BSD-licensed Rhino.Mocks to be rather pleasing.
NUnit is available at http://www.nunit.org
I would suggest this even when working on the MS stack - the support for non-MS frameworks is happening in the MVC previews which shows a definite movement in the right direction to allow us all to customise our stacks to fit.

I've had great success using NUnit as well.

I've also used NMock when the need arose for mock objects. As an added bonus, the factory for creating your mock objects is called the Mockery.

To facilitate the running of unit tests, I've used TestDriven.NET to run unit tests as I coded. Also, I've used Cruise Control .NET to watch SVN and check that every new commit builds and passes all unit tests.
We use MbUnit and Rihno Mocks and they prove to work very well together. When doing TDD you will almost certainly need to do some form of dependency injection, while this can be done manually, its worth looking at an IoC container such as Castle Windsor.

It well worth looking at John Paul Bodhood's screen casts to get you started. JPB's Blog

I'm not a javascript expert but it looks like you would have to loop through the elements and count them since Object doesn't have a length method:



@palmsey: In fairness to the OP, the javascript docs actually explicitly refer to using variables of type Object in this manner as "associative arrays".

Here's how and don't forget to check that the property is not on the prototype chain:




  
    @palmsey: In fairness to the OP, the javascript docs actually explicitly refer to using variables of type Object in this manner as "associative arrays".
  


And in fairness to @palmsey he was quite correct, they aren't associative arrays, they're definitely objects :) - doing the job of an associative array. But as regards the wider point you definitely seem to have the right of it according to this rather fine article I found: 

JavaScript Associative Arrays Considered Harmful

But according to all this, isn't the accepted answer itself bad practice?


  
    Specify a prototype size() function for Object
  


If anything else has been added to Object .prototype, then the suggested code will fail:



I don't think that answer should be the accepted one as it can't be trusted to work if you have any other code running in the same execution context. To do it in a robust fashion surely you would need to define the size method within myArray and check for the type of the members as you iterate through them.
Your HttpServletRequest object has a getParameter(String paramName) method that can be used to get parameter values.  http://java.sun.com/javaee/5/docs/api/javax/servlet/ServletRequest.html#getParameter(java.lang.String)

POST variables should be accessible via the request object: HttpRequest.getParameterMap(). The exception is if the form is sending multipart MIME data (the FORM has enctype="multipart/form-data"). In that case, you need to parse the byte stream with a MIME parser. You can write your own or use an existing one like the Apache Commons File Upload API.
Well, I don't really have an expert opinion on this.
I usually end up using closures based approach just because it keeps the code simpler to manager. But, I have found myself using prototypes for methods that have loads of lines of code.
You also have the choice of:



Which is probably just as slow as example two, but it looks more like Java/C# and is a bit more explicit.
Assigning functions to the prototype is better (for public methods) because all instances of the class will share the same copy of the method. If you assign the function inside the constructor as in the second example, every time you create a new instance, the constructor creates a new copy of the length function and assigns it to just that one instance.

However this latter technique is useful if you want each copy to have it's own copy, the main use of that being to do private/privileges methods which have access to private variables declared inside the constructor and inherited via the closure mechanism.

Douglas Crockford has a good summary.
Fortunately I get to use prototype.js, which provides some nice wrappers. So you can do this:



Prototype.js Documentation: Defining classes and inheritance

I'm not certain, but I believe you can put it in a config file and encrypt the config file.

Update: See Jon Galloway's post here.

If the app is an ASP.NET app then just encrypt the connection strings section of your web.config.

If the app is a client application running on multiple machines, instead of storing the connection string locally, consider using a web service or some other kind of secure mechanism to store it centrally. This would facilitate easier updates in the future and you're not storing the connection string locally.

Just some thoughts.

Updated: @lassevk

"Storing the connection string on a server, and obtaining it through a web connection sounds good, until you realize that you need security on that web connection as well, otherwise an attacker could just as well impersonate your program and talk to the web connection."

Security on the web service was implicit. Depending on the type of deployment there are a numerous options...for example client side certificates.

I hate to say this but as soon as you put something on a client machine, security for that data goes out the window.

If your program is going to decrypt that string, you need to assume that an attacker can do the same. Attaching a debugger to your program would be one way.

Storing the connection string on a server, and obtaining it through a web connection sounds good, until you realize that you need security on that web connection as well, otherwise an attacker could just as well impersonate your program and talk to the web connection.

Let me ask a question. Who are you hiding the connection string from? The user or an attacker? And if the user, why?
There are some other idea's also. You can always use impersonation. Also, you can use the Enterprise Library's (Common Library).




.NET supports encryption on config values like this. You could leave it in a config file, but encrypted.
You want to be able to distribute the DLL with all of the setup information being in a configurable place, but the fact is you can't have one of the handy-dandy .NET config files for a DLL unless you do something custom.

Maybe you need to rethink what responsibility your DLL should have. Would it be possible, or make sense to require that the connection string be passed in by the user of your library? Does it really make sense that your DLL reads a config file?
gedit


Syntax highlighting
Fast, lightweight
Tabs
GUI


emacs has been used by linux programmers for decades. It features syntax highlighting, it's fast, and there are a million tutorials out there you can find.
any of the popular editors can be turned into an ide.

I use Vi on the console and have used various gui editors over the years.  This doesn't just go for linux I use Crimson Editor on windows as a C/python/z80asm ide.
I bounce about between Mac, Windows and Ubuntu and while Emacs used to be my editor of choice, I'm finding that in my old age I prefer to something GUI-based (using command-line for the shell is still fine by me). My preferred editor is Komodo Edit, which the advantages of:


Being free (as in beer)
Available for Mac, Windows and Linux
Syntax highlighting for a boatload of languages, including C++ and PHP (I'm using it for Ruby, Python and PHP myself)
Code completion, even for classes I defined myself
Ability to "remote save" via FTP, SFTP or SCP
Support for organizing your files into projects
Tabs and other interface niceties


I'm not sure how lightweight it is, but it certainly feels snappier than Eclipse!
Joey, I believe anything is lighter than Eclipse!  :o)
Vim (or Emacs varying on religion) will always be my first answer to this question, over any point-and-click IDE.
As they write in The Pragmatic Programmer


  Choose an editor, know it thoroughly, and use it for all editing tasks. [...] The editor will be an extension of your hand; the keys will sing as they slice their way through text and thought. That's our goal.
  
  Make sure that the editor you choose is available on all platforms you use.


Vim is configurable, extensible, programmable and can be turned into an IDE with all the regular features. Lately I've been using Eclim to "bring Eclipse functionality to the Vim editor" (projects, better java support etc.) making it a complete platform with advanced IDE features.
If you are taking your time switching to linux, I'd switch to emacs or vim at some point as well.  There will always be a resource or a document describing exactly the problem you are having with either of them, and generally a solution is just a few more clicks down the road.

Emacs may be easier at the beginning because of modeless editing... but don't let modal editing scare you away from Vim.

The key with either Vim or Emacs is knowing it could probably take you the better part of the day just to figure out what you want them to do, let alone how to get them to do that.

Once they work for you though, you'll see why mostly everyone is in one of two camps.

General hints:


Setting up a Makefile for your project is almost always worth it.
Using cscope and or ctags will make your life easier.


Vim hints:


:make
:cn, :cp
OmniCompletion
using BufRead autoloads to set what :make should do depending on file type


Emacs hints:


ecb is fun
M-x dired
M-. M-, M-* M-x complete-tag for etags
M-x compile
(add-hook 'mylanguage-mode-hook '(lambda () (setq my-customizations t)))


And check out other people's customizations for examples of what other people do.
No.

See A Pragmatic Look at Exception Specifications for reasons why not. 

The only way you can "help" this is to document the exceptions your function can throw, say as a comment in the header file declaring it. This is not enforced by the compiler or anything. Use code reviews for that purpose.

Or you could start throwing critical exceptions. Surely, an access violation exception will catch your users' attention.
Outside the scope of your question so I debated not posting this but in Java there are actually 2 types of exceptions, checked and unchecked. The basic difference is that, much like in c[++], you dont have to catch an unchecked exception.

For a good reference try this 


  Is there a way one can ensure that the
  exceptions thrown are always caught
  using try/catch by the calling
  function?


I find it rather funny, that the Java crowd - including myself - is trying to avoid checked Exceptions. They are trying to work their way around being forced to catch Exceptions by using RuntimeExceptions.
Chris' probably has the best pure answer to the question:

However, I'm curious about the root of the question.  If the user should always wrap the call in a try/catch block, should the user-called function really be throwing exceptions in the first place?

This is a difficult question to answer without more context regarding the code-base in question.  Shooting from the hip, I think the best answer here is to wrap the function up such that the recommended (if not only, depending on the overall exception style of the code) public interface does the try/catch for the user.  If you're just trying to ensure that there are no unhandled exceptions in your code, unit tests and code review are probably the best solution.

Firebug is pretty well unbeatable for JavaScript development in a browser.
'alert(x);' was the primary technique for too long.

FireBug, as others have said, is the way to go in FireFox debugging.

the Aptana IDE (based on eclipse) made a bit of a splash in the javascript IDE region recently.

Visual Studio 2008 contains much improved javascript debugging capabilities over the previous versions.
Try a combination of 
Script# (http://www.nikhilk.net/ScriptSharpIntro.aspx)

and 

Firebug 

Cheers

The nightly builds of WebKit have some great new debugging tools:


We use FindBugs and JDepend integrated with Ant. We use JUnit but we're not using any coverage tool. 

I'm not using it integrated to Rational Application Developer (the IDE I'm using to develop J2EE applications) because I like how neat it looks when you run javac in the Windows console. :P
Checkstyle is another one I've used at a previous company... it's mainly for style checking, but it can do some static analysis too.  Also, Clover for code coverage, though be aware it is not a free tool.
We are using FindBugs and Checkstyle as well as Clover for Code Coverage. 

I think it's important to have some kind of static analysis, supporting your development. Unfortunately it's still not widely spread that these tools are important.
I am looking for many answers to learn about new tools and consolidate this knowledge in a one question/thread, so I doubt there will be 1 true answer to this question.

My answer to my own question is that we use:


Findbugs to look for common errors bad/coding - run from maven, and also integrates easily into Eclipse
Cobertura for our coverage reports - run from maven


Hudson also has a task-scanner plugin that will display a count of your TODO and FIXMEs, as well as show where they are in the source files.

All are integrated with Maven 1.x in our case and tied into Hudson, which runs our builds on check-in as well as extra things nightly and weekly. Hudson trend graphs our JUnit tests, coverage, findbugs, as well as open tasks. There is also a Hudson plugin that reports and graphs our compile warnings. We also have several performance tests with their own graphs of performance and memory use over time using the Hudson plots plugin as well.
I would first find out if the site(s) in question provide an API server or RSS Feeds for access the data you require.
The Ruby world's equivalent to Beautiful Soup is why_the_lucky_stiff's Hpricot.

Regular expressions work pretty well for HTML scraping as well ;-)  Though after looking at Beautiful Soup, I can see why this would be a valuable tool.
You probably have as much already, but I think this is what you are trying to do:


For Perl, there's WWW::Mechanize.
I use Hpricot on Ruby. As an example this is a snippet of code that I use to retrieve all book titles from the six pages of my HireThings account (as they don't seem to provide a single page with this information):



It's pretty much complete. All that comes before this are library imports and the settings for my proxy.

BeautifulSoup is a great way to go for HTML scraping. My previous job had me doing a lot of scraping and I wish I knew about BeautifulSoup when I started. It's like the DOM with a lot more useful options and is a lot more pythonic. If you want to try Ruby they ported BeautifulSoup calling it RubyfulSoup but it hasn't been updated in a while.

Other useful tools are HTMLParser or sgmllib.SGMLParser which are part of the standard Python library. These work by calling methods every time you enter/exit a tag and encounter html text. They're like Expat if you're familiar with that. These libraries are especially useful if you are going to parse very large files and creating a DOM tree would be long and expensive.

Regular expressions aren't very necessary. BeautifulSoup handles regular expressions so if you need their power you can utilize it there. I say go with BeautifulSoup unless you need speed and a smaller memory footprint. If you find a better HTML parser on Python, let me know.
I found HTMLSQL to be a ridiculously simple way to screenscrape. It takes literally minutes to get results with it.

The queries are super-intuitive - like:



There are now some other alternatives that take the same approach.
In the .NET world, I recommend the HTML Agility Pack. Not near as simple as some of the above options (like HTMLSQL), but it's very flexible. It lets you maniuplate poorly formed HTML as if it were well formed XML, so you can use XPATH or just itereate over nodes.

Sounds to me like you're trying to combine things that shouldn't be combined.  If you need to do different processing in your view depending on if it's a User or Group object you're trying to look at then you should use two different view functions.

On the other hand there can be common idioms you'd want to extract out of your object_detail type views... perhaps you could use a decorator or just helper functions?

-Dan
If you're simply displaying data from models, why not use the Django Generic Views? They're designed to let you easy show data from a model without having to write your own view and stuff about mapping URL paramaters to views, fetching data, handling edge cases, rendering output, etc.

Try this:



Notice the overrideMimeType and responseXML.  The readyState == 4 is 'completed'.
Try creating a div



And then set the tag soup HTML to the innerHTML of the div. The browser should process that into XML, which then you can parse.


  The innerHTML property takes a string
  that specifies a valid combination of
  text and elements. When the innerHTML
  property is set, the given string
  completely replaces the existing
  content of the object. If the string
  contains HTML tags, the string is
  parsed and formatted as it is placed
  into the document.

So you want to download a webpage as an XML object using javascript, but you don't want to use a webpage? Since you have no control over what the user will do (closing tabs or windows or whatnot) you would need to do this in like a OSX Dashboard widget or some separate application. A Firefox extension would also work, unless you have to worry about the user closing the browser.
Ajaxian actually had a post on inserting / retrieving html from an iframe today. You can probably use the js snippet they have posted there.
As for handling closing of a browser / tab, you can attach to the onbeforeunload (http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ms536907(VS.85).aspx) event and do whatever you need to do.
For C++, Boost.Random is probably what you're looking for. It has support for MT (among many other algorithms), and can collect entropy via the nondet_random class. Check it out! :-)
The Gnu Scientific Library (GSL) has a pretty extensive set of RN generators, test harness, etc.  If you're on linux, it's probably already available on your system.
Here is a simple static method to do this in C#:


In what language?

In PHP it is:

ucwords()

example:



Without using a ready-made function, a super-simple low-level algorithm to convert a string to title case:



This asssumes the "convert character to uppercase" will do that correctly regardless of whether or not the character is case-sensitive (e.g., '+').
If the language you are using has a supported method/function then just use that (as in the C# ToTitleCase method)

If it does not, then you will want to do something like the following:  


Read in the string  
Take the first word  
Capitalize the first letter of that word 1
Go forward and find the next word  
Go to 3 if not at the end of the string, otherwise exit  


1 To capitalize it in, say, C - use the ascii codes to find the integer value of the char and subtract 32 from it.

There would need to be much more error checking in the code (ensuring valid letters etc.), and the "Capitalize" function will need to impose some sort of "title-case scheme" on the letters to check for words that do not need to be capatilised ('and', 'but' etc. Here is a good scheme)

Here's a Perl solution http://daringfireball.net/2008/05/title_case

Here's a Ruby solution http://frankschmitt.org/projects/title-case

Here's a Ruby one-liner solution: http://snippets.dzone.com/posts/show/4702



What the one-liner is doing is using a regular expression substitution of the first character of each word with the uppercase version of it.

I would be wary of automatically upcasing all whitespace-preceded-words in scenarios where I would run the risk of attracting the fury of nitpickers.

I would at least consider implementing a dictionary for exception cases like articles and conjunctions. Behold: 


  "Beauty and the Beast"


And when it comes to proper nouns, the thing gets much uglier.

To capatilise it in, say, C - use the ascii codes (http://www.asciitable.com/) to find the integer value of the char and subtract 32 from it.
This is a poor solution if you ever plan to accept characters beyond a-z and A-Z.
For instance: ASCII 134: , ASCII 143: . Using arithmetic gets you: ASCII 102: f
Use library calls, don't assume you can use integer arithmetic on your characters to get back something useful. Unicode is tricky.
Looking into the registry is perfectly valid, so long as you can be sure that the user of the application will always have access to what you need.
Take a look at Raymond Chens solution:

How to detect programmatically whether you are running on 64-bit Windows

and here's the PINVOKE for .NET:

IsWow64Process (kernel32)

Update: I'd take issue with checking for 'x86'. Who's to say what intel's or AMD's next 32 bit processor may be designated as. The probability is low but it is a risk. You should ask the OS to determine this via the correct API's, not by querying what could be a OS version/platform specific value that may be considered opaque to the outside world. Ask yourself the questions, 1 - is the registry entry concerned properly documented by MS, 2 - If it is do they provide a definitive list of possible values that is guaranteed to permit you as a developer to make the informed decision between whether you are running 32 bit or 64 bit. If the answer is no, then call the API's, yeah it's a but more long winded but it is documented and definitive. 

The easiest way to test for 64-bit under .NET is to check the value of IntPtr.Size.
EDIT: Doh! This will tell you whether or not the current process is 64-bit, not the OS as a whole. Sorry!

The easiest way to test for 64-bit under .NET is to check the value of IntPtr.Size.
I believe the value of IntPtr.Size is 4 for a 32bit app that's running under WOW, isn't it?
Edit: @Edit: Yeah. :)
You can use reflection to get the property and invoke it. Something like this:



That is, assuming the object that has the property is called "theObject" :)
You could do it with a prototype function:



and so on...
Not really. You can use reflection to achieve what you want, but it won't be nearly as simple as in Javascript. For example, if you wanted to set the private field of an object to something, you could use this function:



Unfortunately, C# isn't a dynamic language like that.

What you can do, however, is to create a C# source code file, full with class and everything, and run it through the CodeDom provider for C# and compile it into an assembly, and then execute it.

This forum post on MSDN contains an answer with some example code down the page somewhat:
create a anonymous method from a string? 

I would hardly say this is a very good solution, but it is possible anyway.

What kind of code are you going to expect in that string? If it is a minor subset of valid code, for instance just math expressions, it might be that other alternatives exists.



Edit: Well, that teaches me to read the questions thoroughly first. Yes, reflection would be able to give you some help here.

If you split the string by the ; first, to get individual properties, you can use the following code to get a PropertyInfo object for a particular property for a class, and then use that object to manipulate a particular object.



Link: PropertyInfo.SetValue Method

All of that would definitely work.  Personally, for that particular problem, I would probably take a little different approach.  Maybe something like this:



When using patterns like this, you have to be careful that your data is stored by reference and not by value.  In other words, don't do this with primitives.  You have to use their big bloated class counterparts.

I realized that's not exactly the question, but the question has been pretty well answered and I thought maybe an alternative approach might help.
J# is no longer included in VS2008. Unless you already have J# code, you should probably stay away.

From j# product page:


  Since customers have told us that the
  existing J# feature set largely meets
  their needs and usage of J# is
  declining, Microsoft is retiring the
  Visual J# product and Java Language
  Conversion Assistant tool to better
  allocate resources for other customer
  requirements. The J# language and JLCA
  tool will not be available in future
  versions of Visual Studio. To preserve
  existing customer investments in J#,
  Microsoft will continue to support the
  J# and JLCA technology that shipped
  with Visual Studio 2005 through to
  2015 as per our product life-cycle
  strategy. For more information, see
  Expanded Microsoft Support Lifecycle
  Policy for Business  Development
  Products.

The whole purpose of J# is to ease the transition of Java developers to the .NET environment which didn't work so well (I guessing here) so Microsoft dropped J# from Visual Studio 2008.
For your question, "Is there a real benefit of using J#?"..
in a nutshell... No..
One of the killers I've found with J# in the past is that there is no built in support for referencing web services. That alone has been enough to deter me from it ever since.
C# syntax is so close to Java (and better in some ways) that you might as well learn C# instead of J#.  And since C# is more widely used, you can easily find Java -- C# tutorials on google or check out http://www.asp.net/learn and watch some videos.
No, there are many applications built with VS2005 that have to support Windows XP, 2000, NT, the whole stack. The issue is that (by default) VS2005 wants to use libraries/exports not present on NT.
See this thread for some background.
Then start limiting your dependencies via preprocessor macros, and avoiding APIs which aren't supported on NT.
I would suggest storing the stylesheet selection in the session so you don't have to rely on the querystring key being present all the time. You can check the session in Page_Load and add the appropriate stylesheet reference. It sounds like this is a temporary/development situation, so go with whatever is easy and works.


In Asp.net 3.5, you should be able to set up the Link tag in the header as a server tag. Then in the codebehind you can set the href property for the link element, based on a cookie value, querystring, date, etc.
In your aspx file:head
  link id="linkStyles" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" runat="server" /
/head

And in the Code behind:protected void Page_Load(object sender, EventArgs e) {
  string stylesheetAddress = // logic to determine stylesheet
  linkStyles.Href = stylesheetAddress;
}

You should look into ASP.NET themes, that's exactly what they're used for. They also allow you to skin controls, which means give them a set of default attributes.
I would do the following:

www.website.com/?stylesheet=new.css

Then in your ASP.NET code:



Then where you define your stylesheets:


Assuming module foo with method bar:



As far as that goes, lines 2 and 3 can be compressed to:



if that makes more sense for your use case.  You can use getattr in this fashion on class instance bound methods, module-level methods, class methods... the list goes on.

Patrick's solution is probably the cleanest.
If you need to dynamically pick up the module as well, you can import it like:



Check out FileHelpers Open Source Library.

A good simple way to do it is to open the file, and read each line into an array, linked list, data-structure-of-your-choice. Be careful about handling the first line though.

This may be over your head, but there seems to be a direct way to access them as well using a connection string.

Why not try using Python instead of C# or VB? It has a nice CSV module to import that does all the heavy lifting for you.

If you can guarantee that there are no commas in the data, then the simplest way would probably be to use String.split.

For example:



There may be libraries you could use to help, but that's probably as simple as you can get.  Just make sure you can't have commas in the data, otherwise you will need to parse it better.
There are two articles on CodeProject that provide code for a solution, one that uses StreamReader and one that imports CSV data using the Microsoft Text Driver.

I was bored so i modified some stuff i wrote.  It try's to encapsulate the parsing in an OO manner whle cutting down on the amount of iterations through the file, it only iterates once at the top foreach.



Brian gives a nice solution for converting it to a strongly typed collection.

Most of the CSV parsing methods given don't take into account escaping fields or some of the other subtleties of CSV files (like trimming fields). Here is the code I personally use. It's a bit rough around the edges and has pretty much no error reporting.



Note that this doesn't handle the edge case of fields not being deliminated by double quotes, but meerley having a quoted string inside of it. See this post for a bit of a better expanation as well as some links to some proper libraries.
You need to create an extension method, which requires .NET 3.5. The method needs to be static, in a static class. The first parameter of the method needs to be prefixed with "this" in the signature.



You can then call it like


You can't dynamically add methods to existing objects or classes in .NET, except by changing the source for that class.

You can, however, in C# 3.0, use extension methods, which look like new methods, but are compile-time magic.

To do this for your code:



To use it:



This looks like a new method, but will compile the exact same way as this code:



What exactly are you trying to accomplish? Perhaps there are better ways of doing what you want?
Using the 3.5 compiler you can use an Extension Method:



You can use this on a CLR 2.0 targeted project (3.5 compiler) by including this hack:


It sounds like you're talking about C#'s Extension Methods. You add functionality to existing classes by inserting the "this" keyword before the first parameter. The method has to be a static method in a static class. Strings in .NET already have a "Trim" method, so I'll use another example.public static class MyStringEtensions
{
    public static bool ContainsMabster(this string s)
    {
        return s.Contains("Mabster");
    }
}

So now every string has a tremendously useful ContainsMabster method, which I can use like this:if ("Why hello there, Mabster!".ContainsMabster()) { /* ... */ }

Note that you can also add extension methods to interfaces (eg IList), which means that any class implementing that interface will also pick up that new method.
Any extra parameters you declare in the extension method (after the first "this" parameter) are treated as normal parameters.
I'm not a Java developer, but just from the sound of it, it seems like an IllegalArgumentException is called for if you don't want null to be an allowed value, and the NullPointerException would be thrown if you were trying to use a variable that turns out to be null.

If it's a setter method and null is being passed to it, I think it would make more sense to throw an IllegalArgumentException. A NullPointerException seems to make more sense in the case where you're attempting to actually use the null.
So, if you're using it and it's null, NullPointer. If it's being passed in and it's null, IllegalArgument.
I think you should definitely throw a IllegalArgumentException and thus fail-fast. Let other developers know by marking it in the JavaDocs and also define constraints on your methods, so that they see what happens when they pass an invalid objects. I wrote about this a couple of weeks ago, if you want to follow up.
I tend to follow the design of JDK libraries, especially Collections and Concurrency (Joshua Bloch, Doug Lea, those guys know how to design solid APIs). Anyway, many APIs in the JDK pro-actively throws NullPointerException. 

For example, the Javadoc for Map.containsKey states:


  @throws NullPointerException if the key is null and this map
    does not permit null keys (optional).


It's perfectly valid to throw your own NPE. The convention is to include the parameter name which was null in the message of the exception. 

The pattern goes:



Whatever you do, don't allow a bad value to get set and throw an exception later when other code attempts to use it. That makes debugging a nightmare. You should always the follow the "fail-fast" principle.

I've tried finding the ultimate compiler call earlier and I gave up. There's quite a number of layers of interfaces and virtual classes for my patience.

I don't think the source reader part of the compiler ends up with a DOM tree, but intuitively I would agree with you. The work necessary to transform the DOM to IL should be much less than reading C# source code.
There is no pure CSS/HTML way to achieve this, as far as I know.  Your best bet would be to do it in pre-processing (if list length > 150, split into 3 columns, esle if > 70, split into  2 columns, else 1).  

The other option, using JavaScript (I'm not familiar with the jQuery library specifically) would be to iterate through lists, probably based on them being a certain class, count the number of children, and if it is a high  enough number, dynamically create a new list after the first, transferring some number of list items to the new list.  As far as implementing the columns, you could probably float them left, followed by an element that had the style clear:left or clear:both.

CSS:

ul.column {
    float:left;
    width:50%;
}
div.clear {
    clear:both;
}


HTML:



So I dug up this article from A List Apart CSS Swag: Multi-Column Lists.  I ended up using the first solution, it's not the best but the others require either using complex HTML that can't be generated dynamically, or creating a lot of custom classes, which could be done but would require loads of in-line styling and possibly a huge page.

Other solutions are still welcome though.
If Safari and Firefox support is good enough for you, there is a CSS solution:



I'm not sure about Opera.
Yes it is, try it out in a test.  You will see "long" printed.  It is widening because Java will choose to widen the int into a long before it chooses to autobox it to an Integer, so the hello(long) method is chosen to be called.

Edit: the original post being referenced.

Further Edit: The reason the second option would print Integer is because there is no "widening" into a larger primitive as an option, so it MUST box it up, thus Integer is the only option.  Furthermore, java will only autobox to the original type, so it would give a compiler error if you leave the hello(Long) and removed hello(Integer).
In the first case, you have a widening conversion happening. This can be see when runinng the "javap" utility program (included w/ the JDK), on the compiled class:



Clearly, you see the I2L, which is the mnemonic for the widening Integer-To-Long bytecode instruction. See reference here.

And in the other case, replacing the "long x" with the object "Long x" signature, you'll have this code in the main method:



So you see the compiler has created the instruction Integer.valueOf(int), to box the primitive inside the wrapper.
Another interesting thing with this example is the method overloading. The combination of type widening and method overloading only working because the compiler has to make a decision of which method to choose. Consider the following example:



It doesn't use the run-time type which is List, it uses the compile-time type which is Collection and thus prints "Collection". 

I encourage your to read Effective Java, which opened my eyes to some corner cases of the JLS.

ZOiqZQIbRMC
You'd be looking to static link (as opposed to dynamically link)

I'm not sure how many of the MS redistributables statically link in.
If you are looking to find out which dll's your target machine is missing then use depends.exe which used to come with MSDev, but can also be found here. Testing this on a few target machines should tell you which dll's you need to package with your application.
You need to set the run-time library (Under C/C++ - Code Generation) for ALL projects to static linkage, which correlates to the following default building configurations:

Multithreaded Debug/Release
Singlethreaded Debug/Release
As opposed to the "DLL" versions of those libraries.
Even if you do that, depending on the libraries you're using, you might have to install a Merge Module/framework/etc. It depends on whether static LIB versions of your dependencies are available.
Check out the open source project LMMS. It's a music studio for Linux that includes the ability to use MIDI keyboards with software instruments. If you dig around in source files with 'midi' in the name, you'll probably find what you're looking for.
This is part of a solution I use on a local intranet. Some of the variables you will have to collect yourself as I pull them from a database but you may pull them from somewhere else.

The only extra but I've got in there is a function called getMimeType which connects to the database and pulls back the correct mine type based on file extension. This defaults to application/octet-stream if none is found.


LINQ turns into method calls like the code you have.

In other words, there should be no difference.

However, in your two pieces of code you are not calling .ToList in the first, so the first piece of code will produce an enumerable data source, but if you call .ToList on it, the two should be the same.
Other than the ToList difference, #2 is a lot more readable and natural IMO

  Why are pointers such a leading factor of confusion for many new, and even old, college level students in the C/C++ language? 


The concept of a placeholder for a value - variables - maps onto something we're taught in school - algebra.  There isn't an existing parallel you can draw without understanding how memory is physically laid out within a computer, and no one thinks about this kind of thing until they're dealing with low level things - at the C/C++/byte communications level.


  Are there any tools or thought processes that helped you understand how pointers work at the variable, function, and beyond level?


Addresses boxes.  I remember when I was learning to program BASIC into microcomputers, there were these pretty books with games in them, and sometimes you had to poke values into particular addresses.  They had a picture of a bunch of boxes, incrementally labelled with 0, 1, 2... and it was explained that only one small thing (a byte) could fit in these boxes, and there were a lot of them - some computers had as many as 65535!  They were next to each other, and they all had an address.


  What are some good practice things that can be done to bring somebody to the level of, "Ah-hah, I got it," without getting them bogged down in the overall concept? Basically, drill like scenarios.


For a drill?  Make a struct:

struct {
char a;
char b;
char c;
char d;
} mystruct;
mystruct.a = 'r';
mystruct.b = 's';
mystruct.c = 't';
mystruct.d = 'u';

char* my_pointer;
my_pointer = mystruct.b;
cout  'Start: my_pointer = '  *my_pointer  endl;
my_pointer++;
cout  'After: my_pointer = '  *my_pointer  endl;
my_pointer = mystruct.a;
cout  'Then: my_pointer = '  *my_pointer  endl;
my_pointer = my_pointer + 3;
cout  'End: my_pointer = '  *my_pointer  endl;


Same example as above, except in C:

// Same example as above, except in C:
struct {
    char a;
    char b;
    char c;
    char d;
} mystruct;

mystruct.a = 'r';
mystruct.b = 's';
mystruct.c = 't';
mystruct.d = 'u';

char* my_pointer;
my_pointer = mystruct.b;

printf("Start: my_pointer = %c\n", *my_pointer);
my_pointer++;
printf("After: my_pointer = %c\n", *my_pointer);
my_pointer = mystruct.a;
printf("Then: my_pointer = %c\n", *my_pointer);
my_pointer = my_pointer + 3;
printf("End: my_pointer = %c\n", *my_pointer);


Output:



Perhaps that explains some of the basics through example?

I don't think pointers as a concept are particularly tricky - most students' mental models map to something like this and some quick box sketches can help.

The difficulty, at least that which I've experienced in the past and seen others deal with, is that the management of pointers in C/C++ can be unncessarily convoluted.
I don't see what is so confusing about pointers. They point to a location in memory, that is it stores the memory address. In C/C++ you can specify the type the pointer points to. For example:



Says that my_int_pointer contains the address to a location that contains an int.

The problem with pointers is that they point to a location in memory, so it is easy to trail off into some location you should not be in. As proof look at the numerous security holes in C/C++ applications from buffer overflow (incrementing the pointer past the allocated boundary). 
The reason pointers seem to confuse so many people is that they mostly come with little or no background in computer architecture. Since many don't seem to have an idea of how computers (the machine) is actually implemented - working in C/C++ seems alien.
A drill is to ask them to implement a simple bytecode based virtual machine (in any language they chose, python works great for this) with an instruction set focussed on pointer operations (load, store, direct/indirect addressing). Then ask them to write simple programs for that instruction set.
Anything requiring slightly more than simple addition is going to involve pointers and they are sure to get it.
I think that the main reason that people have trouble with it is because it's generally not taught in an interesting and engaging manner. I'd like to see a lecturer get 10 volunteers from the crowd and give them a 1 meter ruler each, get them to stand around in a certain configuration and use the rulers to point at each other. Then show pointer arithmetic by moving people around (and where they point their rulers). It'd be a simple but effective (and above all memorable) way of showing the concepts without getting too bogged down in the mechanics.

Once you get to C and C++ it seems to get harder for some people. I'm not sure if this is because they are finally putting theory that they don't properly grasp into practice or because pointer manipulation is inherently harder in those languages. I can't remember my own transition that well, but I knew pointers in Pascal and then moved to C and got totally lost.

Pointers is a concept that for many can be confusing at first, in particular when it comes to copying pointer values around and still referencing the same memory block.

I've found that the best analogy is to consider the pointer as a piece of paper with a house address on it, and the memory block it references as the actual house. All sorts of operations can thus be easily explained.

I've added some Delphi code down below, and some comments where appropriate. I chose Delphi since my other main programming language, C#, does not exhibit things like memory leaks in the same way.

If you only wish to learn the high-level concept of pointers, then you should ignore the parts labelled "Memory layout" in the explanation below. They are intended to give examples of what memory could look like after operations, but they are more low-level in nature. However, in order to accurately explain how buffer overruns really work, it was important that I added these diagrams.

Disclaimer: For all intents and purposes, this explanation and the example memory
layouts are vastly simplified. There's more overhead and a lot more details you would
need to know if you need to deal with memory on a low-level basis. However, for the
intents of explaining memory and pointers, it is accurate enough.



Let's assume the THouse class used below looks like this:



When you initialize the house object, the name given to the constructor is copied into the private field FName. There is a reason it is defined as a fixed-size array.

In memory, there will be some overhead associated with the house allocation, I'll illustrate this below like this:


---[ttttNNNNNNNNNN]---
     ^   ^
     |   |
     |   +- the FName array
     |
     +- overhead


The "tttt" area is overhead, there will typically be more of this for various types of runtimes and languages, like 8 or 12 bytes. It is imperative that whatever values are stored in this area never gets changed by anything other than the memory allocator or the core system routines, or you risk crashing the program.



Allocate memory

Get an entrepreneur to build your house, and give you the address to the house. In contrast to the real world, memory allocation cannot be told where to allocate, but will find a suitable spot with enough room, and report back the address to the allocated memory.

In other words, the entrepreneur will choose the spot.



Memory layout:


---[ttttNNNNNNNNNN]---
    1234My house




Keep a variable with the address

Write the address to your new house down on a piece of paper. This paper will serve as your reference to your house. Without this piece of paper, you're lost, and cannot find the house, unless you're already in it.



Memory layout:


    h
    v
---[ttttNNNNNNNNNN]---
    1234My house




Copy pointer value  

Just write the address on a new piece of paper. You now have two pieces of paper that will get you to the same house, not two separate houses. Any attempts to follow the address from one paper and rearrange the furniture at that house will make it seem that the other house has been modified in the same manner, unless you can explicitly detect that it's actually just one house.

Note This is usually the concept that I have the most problem explaining to people, two pointers does not mean two objects or memory blocks.




    h1
    v
---[ttttNNNNNNNNNN]---
    1234My house
    ^
    h2




Freeing the memory  

Demolish the house. You can then later on reuse the paper for a new address if you so wish, or clear it to forget the address to the house that no longer exists.



Here I first construct the house, and get hold of its address. Then I do something to the house (use it, the ... code, left as an exercise for the reader), and then I free it. Lastly I clear the address from my variable.

Memory layout:


    h                        --+
    v                           +- before free
---[ttttNNNNNNNNNN]---          |
    1234My house             --+

    h (now points nowhere)   --+
                                +- after free
----------------------          | (note, memory might still
    xx34My house             --+  contain some data)




Dangling pointers

You tell your entrepreneur to destroy the house, but you forget to erase the address from your piece of paper. When later on you look at the piece of paper, you've forgotten that the house is no longer there, and goes to visit it, with failed results (see also the part about an invalid reference below).



Using h after the call to .Free might work, but that is just pure luck. Most likely it will fail, at a customers place, in the middle of a critical operation.


    h                        --+
    v                           +- before free
---[ttttNNNNNNNNNN]---          |
    1234My house             --+

    h                        --+
    v                           +- after free
----------------------          |
    xx34My house             --+


As you can see, h still points to the remnants of the data in memory, but
since it might not be complete, using it as before might fail.



Memory leak  

You lose the piece of paper and cannot find the house. The house is still standing somewhere though, and when you later on want to construct a new house, you cannot reuse that spot.



Here we overwrote the contents of the h variable with the address of a new house, but the old one is still standing... somewhere. After this code, there is no way to reach that house, and it will be left standing. In other words, the allocated memory will stay allocated until the application closes, at which point the operating system will tear it down.

Memory layout after first allocation:


    h
    v
---[ttttNNNNNNNNNN]---
    1234My house


Memory layout after second allocation:


                       h
                       v
---[ttttNNNNNNNNNN]---[ttttNNNNNNNNNN]
    1234My house       5678My house


A more common way to get this method is just to forget to free something, instead of overwriting it as above. In Delphi terms, this will occur with the following method:



After this method has executed, there's no place in our variables that the address to the house exists, but the house is still out there.

Memory layout:


    h                        --+
    v                           +- before losing pointer
---[ttttNNNNNNNNNN]---          |
    1234My house             --+

    h (now points nowhere)   --+
                                +- after losing pointer
---[ttttNNNNNNNNNN]---          |
    1234My house             --+


As you can see, the old data is left intact in memory, and will not
be reused by the memory allocator. The allocator keeps track of which
areas of memory has been used, and will not reuse them unless you
free it.



Freeing the memory but keeping a (now invalid) reference  

Demolish the house, erase one of the pieces of paper but you also have another piece of paper with the old address on it, when you go to the address, you won't find a house, but you might find something that resembles the ruins of one.

Perhaps you will even find a house, but it is not the house you were originally given the address to, and thus any attempts to use it as though it belongs to you might fail horribly.

Sometimes you might even find that a neighbouring address has a rather big house set up on it that occupies three address (Main Street 1-3), and your address goes to the middle of the house. Any attempts to treat that part of the large 3-address house as a single small house might also fail horribly.



Here the house was torn down, through the reference in h1, and while h1 was cleared as well, h2 still has the old, out-of-date, address. Access to the house that is no longer standing might or might not work.

This is a variation of the dangling pointer above. See its memory layout.



Buffer overrun  

You move more stuff into the house than you can possibly fit, spilling into the neighbours house or yard. When the owner of that neighbouring house later on comes home, he'll find all sorts of things he'll consider his own.

This is the reason I chose a fixed-size array. To set the stage, assume that
the second house we allocate will, for some reason, be placed before the
first one in memory. In other words, the second house will have a lower
address than the first one. Also, they're allocated right next to each other.

Thus, this code:



Memory layout after first allocation:


                        h1
                        v
-----------------------[ttttNNNNNNNNNN]
                        5678My house


Memory layout after second allocation:


    h2                  h1
    v                   v
---[ttttNNNNNNNNNN]----[ttttNNNNNNNNNN]
    1234My other house somewhereouse
                        ^---+--^
                            |
                            +- overwritten


The part that will most often cause crash is when you overwrite important parts
of the data you stored that really should not be randomly changed. For instance
it might not be a problem that parts of the name of the h1-house was changed,
in terms of crashing the program, but overwriting the overhead of the
object will most likely crash when you try to use the broken object,
as will overwriting links that is stored to
other objects in the object.



Linked lists  

When you follow an address on a piece of paper, you get to a house, and at that house there is another piece of paper with a new address on it, for the next house in the chain, and so on.



Here we create a link from our home house to our cabin. We can follow the chain until a house has no NextHouse reference, which means it's the last one. To visit all our houses, we could use the following code:



Memory layout (added NextHouse as a link in the object, noted with
the four LLLL's in the below diagram):


    h1                      h2
    v                       v
---[ttttNNNNNNNNNNLLLL]----[ttttNNNNNNNNNNLLLL]
    1234Home       +        5678Cabin      +
                   |        ^              |
                   +--------+              * (no link)




In basic terms, what is a memory address?

A memory address is in basic terms just a number. If you think of memory
as a big array of bytes, the very first byte has the address 0, the next one
the address 1 and so on upwards. This is simplified, but good enough.

So this memory layout:


    h1                 h2
    v                  v
---[ttttNNNNNNNNNN]---[ttttNNNNNNNNNN]
    1234My house       5678My house


Might have these two address (the leftmost - is address 0):


h1 = 4
h2 = 23


Which means that our linked list above might actuall look like this:


    h1 (=4)                 h2 (=28)
    v                       v
---[ttttNNNNNNNNNNLLLL]----[ttttNNNNNNNNNNLLLL]
    1234Home      0028      5678Cabin     0000
                   |        ^              |
                   +--------+              * (no link)


It is typical to store an address that "points nowhere" as a zero-address.



In basic terms, what is a pointer?

A pointer is just a variable holding a memory address. You can typically ask the programming
language to give you its number, but most programming languages and runtimes tries to
hide the fact that there is a number beneath, just because the number itself does not
really hold any meaning to you. It is best to think of a pointer as a black box, ie.
you don't really know or care about how it is actually implemented, just as long as it
works.

An example of a tutorial with a good set of diagrams helps greatly with the understanding of pointers. 

Joel Spolsky makes some good points about understanding pointers in his Guerrilla Guide to Interviewing article:


  For some reason most people seem to be born without the part of the brain that understands pointers. This is an aptitude thing, not a skill thing  it requires a complex form of doubly-indirected thinking that some people just can't do.


In my first Comp Sci class, we did the following exercise. Granted, this was a lecture hall with roughly 200 students in it...

Professor writes on the board: int john;

John stands up

Professor writes: int *sally = john;

Sally stands up, points at john

Professor: int *bill = sally;

Bill stands up, points at John

Professor: int sam;

Sam stands up

Professor: bill = sam;

Bill now points to Sam.

I think you get the idea. I think we spent about an hour doing this, until we went over the basics of pointer assignment.

I've been successfully using it on Vista x64 for some light Java work.  Nothing too involved and no extra plugins, but basic Java coding has been working without any issues.  I'm using the 3.4M7 build but it looks like the 3.4 stable build supports Vista x64 now.
Here are the salient points:


You can't make UI control calls from a different thread than the one they were created on (the form's thread).
Delegate invocations (ie, event hooks) are triggered on the same thread as the object that is firing the event. 


So, if you have a separate "engine" thread doing some work and have some UI watching for state changes which can be reflected in the UI (such as a progress bar or whatever), you have a problem. The engine fire's an object changed event which has been hooked by the Form. But the callback delegate that the Form registered with the engine gets called on the engine's thread not on the Form's thread. And so you can't update any controls from that callback. Doh!

BeginInvoke comes to the rescue. Just use this simple coding model in all your callback methods and you can be sure that things are going to be okay:



It's quite simple really.


Use InvokeRequired to find out if this callback happened on the correct thread.
If not, then reinvoke the callback on the correct thread with the same parameters. You can reinvoke a method by using the Invoke (blocking) or BeginInvoke (non-blocking) methods.
The next time the function is called, InvokeRequired returns false because we are now on the correct thread and everybody is happy. 


This is a very compact way of addressing this problem and making your Forms safe from multi-threaded event callbacks.
In many simple cases, you can use the MethodInvoker delegate and avoid the need to create your own delegate type.
To simplify Simon's code a bit, you could use the built in generic Action delegate.  It saves peppering your code with a bunch of delegate types you don't really need.  Also, in .NET 3.5 they added a params parameter to the Invoke method so you don't have to define a temporary array.



Take a look at the BrowserPlus project at Yahoo.

It looks like they have built a toolkit so that you don't have to do the gritty work of writing the browser plugin yourself.

have you tried watching the traffic between the GUI and the serial port to see if there is some kind of special command being sent across?  Also just curious, Python is sending ASCII and not UTF-8 or something else right?  The reason I ask is because I noticed your quote changes for the strings and in some languages that actually is the difference between ASCII and UTF-8.

/dev/cu.xxxxx is the "callout" device, it's what you use when you establish a connection to the serial device and start talking to it. /dev/tty.xxxxx is the "dialin" device, used for monitoring a port for incoming calls for e.g. a fax listener.
Many years ago, to provide an age calculator gimmick on my website, I wrote a function to calculate age to a fraction. This is a quick port of that function to C# (from the PHP version). I'm afraid I haven't been able to test the C# version, but hope you enjoy all the same!

(Admittedly this is a bit gimmicky for the purposes of showing user profiles on Stack Overflow, but maybe readers will find some use for it. :-))


The best way that I know of because of leap years and everything is:



Hope this helps.
Another function, not my me but found on the web and a bit refined:



Just two things that come into my mind: What about people from countries that do not use the gregorian calendar? DateTime.Now is in the server-specific culture i think. I have absolutely 0 knowledge about actually working with Asian calendars and I do not know if there is an easy way to convert dates between calendars, but just in case you're wondering about those chinese guys from the year 4660 :-)

For some reason Jeff's code didn't seem simple enough. To me this seems simpler and easier to understand:



However, this assumes you are looking for the western idea of age and not using East Asian reckoning.

This is the version we use here. It works, and it's fairly simple. It's the same idea as Jeff's but I think it's a little clearer because it separates out the logic for subtracting one, so it's a little easier to understand.



You could expand the ternary operator to make it even clearer, if you think that sort of thing is unclear.

Obviously this is done as an extension method on DateTime, but clearly you can grab that one line of code that does the work and put it anywhere. Here we have another overload of the Extension method that passes in DateTime.Now, just for completeness.

Some object suppose the .dispose() method which forces the resource to be removed from memory.
No don't null objects. You can check out http://codebetter.com/blogs/karlseguin/archive/2008/04/27/foundations-of-programming-pt-7-back-to-basics-memory.aspx for more information, but setting things to null won't do anything, except dirty your code.
The only time you should set a variable to null is when the variable does not go out of scope and you no longer need the data associated with it. Otherwise there is no need. 
Also:


There are some cases where it makes sense to null references. For instance, when you're writing a collection--like a priority queue--and by your contract, you shouldn't be keeping those objects alive for the client after the client has removed them from the queue. 

But this sort of thing only matters in long lived collections. If the queue's not going to survive the end of the function it was created in, then it matters a whole lot less.

On a whole, you really shouldn't bother. Let the compiler and GC do their jobs so you can do yours.
Karl is absolutely correct, there is no need to set objects to null after use. If an object implements IDisposable, just make sure you call IDisposable.Dispose() when you're done with that object (wrapped in a try..finally, or, a using() block). But even if you don't remember to call Dispose(), the finaliser method on the object should be calling Dispose() for you.

I thought this was a good treatment:

Digging into IDisposable

and this  

Understanding IDisposable

There isn't any point in trying to second guess the GC and its management strategies because it's self tuning and opaque. There was a good discussion about the inner workings with Jeffrey Richter on Dot Net Rocks here: Jeffrey Richter on the Windows Memory Model and
Richters book CLR via C# chapter 20 has a great treatment: 

If you have a byte[] you should be able to use the BinaryReader class and set values on NewStuff using the available ReadX methods.
From what I can see in that context, you don't need to copy SomeByteArray into a buffer. You simply need to get the handle from SomeByteArray, pin it, copy the IntPtr data using PtrToStructure and then release. No need for a copy.

That would be:



Generic version:



...

As of .Net 1.1 the only available method is reaching into the java libraries.
Using the Zip Classes in the J# Class Libraries to Compress Files and Data with C#
Not sure if this has changed in recent versions.
I've always used the SharpZip Library.

Here's a link

You can use a 3rd-party library such as SharpZip as Tom pointed out.

Another way (without going 3rd-party) is to use the Windows Shell API. You'll need to set a reference to the Microsoft Shell Controls and Automation COM library in your C# project. Gerald Gibson has an example at:

Internet Archive's copy of the dead page

This is very easy to do in java, and as stated above you can reach into the java.util.zip libraries from C#.  For references see:

java.util.zip javadocs

sample code

I used this a while ago to do a deep (recursive) zip of a folder structure, but I don't think I ever used the unzipping.  If I'm so motivated I may pull that code out and edit it into here later.
The .Net 2.0 framework namespace System.IO.Compression supports GZip and Deflate algorithms. Here are two methods that compress and decompress a byte stream which you can get from your file object. You can subsitute GZipStream for DefaultStream in the methods below to use that algorithm. This still leaves the problem of handling files compressed with different algorithms though.



Can you show us your code?

The example on the Python docs is quite straightforward:



So in your case, data is a list of nodes, keyfunc is where the logic of your criteria function goes and then groupby() groups the data.

You must be careful to sort the data by the criteria before you call groupby or it won't work. groupby method actually just iterates through a list and whenever the key changes it creates a new group.

You may find the solution in SQL User Defined Function to Parse a Delimited String helpful (from The Code Project).

You can use this simple logic:



Well, mine isn't all that simpler, but here is the code I use to split a comma-delimited input variable into individual values, and put it into a table variable. I'm sure you could modify this slightly to split based on a space and then to do a basic SELECT query against that table variable to get your results.



The concept is pretty much the same. One other alternative is to leverage the .NET compatibility within SQL Server 2005 itself. You can essentially write yourself a simple method in .NET that would split the string and then expose that as a stored procedure/function.

Here is a UDF which will do it.  It will return a table of the delimited values, haven't tried all scenarios on it but your example works fine.



You would call it like this:



Edit:  Updated solution to handle delimters with a len1 as in :


Try this:



Test it like this:


I don't believe SQL Server has a built-in split function, so other than a UDF, the only other answer I know is to hijack the PARSENAME function:



PARSENAME takes a string and splits it on the period character.  It takes a number as its second argument, and that number specifies which segment of the string to return (working from back to front).



Obvious problem is when the string already contains a period.  I still think using a UDF is the best way...any other suggestions?

First, create a function (using CTE, common table expression does away with the need for a temp table) 



Then, use it as any table (or modify it to fit within your existing stored proc) like this. 



Update

Previous version would fail for input string longer than 4000 chars. This version takes care of the limitation:



Usage remains the same.

The reason is that a generic class like List is, for most purposes, treated externally as a normal class. e.g. when you say Liststring() the compiler says ListString() (which contains strings). [Technical folk: this is an extremely plain-English-ified version of what's going on]

Consequently, obviously the compiler can't be smart enough to convert a ListString to a ListObject by casting the items of its internal collection.

That's why there's extension methods for IEnumerable like Convert() that allow you to easily supply conversion for the items stored inside a collection, which could be as simple as casting from one to another.
Think of it this way, if you were to do such a cast, and then add an object of type Foo to the list, the list of strings is no longer consistent.  If you were to iterate the first reference, you would get a class cast exception because once you hit the Foo instance, the Foo could not be converted to string!

As a side note, I think it would be more significant whether or not you can do the reverse cast:



I haven't used C# in a while, so I don't know if that is legal, but that sort of cast is actually (potentially) useful.  In this case, you are going from a more general class (object) to a more specific class (string) that extends from the general one.  In this way, if you add to the list of strings, you are not violating the list of objects.

Does anybody know or can test if such a cast is legal in C#?
Mike - I believe contravariance isn't allowed in C# either

See Generic type parameter variance in the CLR for some more info.

This has a lot to do with covariance, e.g., generic types are considered as parameters, and if the parameters do not resolve properly to a more specific type then the operation fails. The implication of such is that you really cannot cast to a more general type like object. And as stated by Rex, the List object won't convert each object for you.

You might want to try the ff code instead:



or:



ol will (theoretically) copy all the contents of sl without problems.
If you're using .NET 3.5 have a look at the Enumerable.Cast method. It's an extension method so you can call it directly on the List.



It's not exactly what you asked for but should do the trick.

Edit: As noted by Zooba, you can then call ol.ToList() to get a List

This has to do with how data bindings are set up in the dotnet framework, especially the BindingContext. On a high level it means that if you haven't specified otherwise each form and all the controls of the form share the same BindingContext. When you are setting the DataSource property the ComboBox will use the BindingContext to get a ConcurrenyMangager that wraps the list. The ConcurrenyManager keeps track of such things as the current selected position in the list. 

When you set the DataSource of the second ComboBox it will use the same BindingContext (the forms) which will yield a reference to the same ConcurrencyManager as above used to set up the data bindings.

To get a more detailed explanation see BindingContext.

It's called alpha blending.

In psuedocode, assuming the background color (blend) always has 255 alpha. Also assumes alpha is 0-255.



note: you probably need to be a bit (more) careful about floating-point/int math and rounding issues, depending on language. Cast intermediates accordingly

Edited to add:

If you don't have a background color with an alpha of 255, the algebra gets alot more complicated. I've done it before and it's a fun exercise left to the reader (if you really need to know, ask another question :). 

In other words, what color C blends into some background the same as blending A, then blending B. This is sort of like calculating A+B (which isn't the same as B+A).
if you don't need to know this pre-render, you could always use the win32 method of getpixel, I believe. 

Note: typing on iPhone in the middle of Missouri with no inet access. Will look up real win32 example and see if there is a .net equivalent.

In case anyone cares, and doesn't want to use the (excellent) answer posted above, you can get the color value of a pixel in .Net via this link MSDN example
try libpcre

If you're stuck on windows they have a windows port which should work. I know e-texteditor uses it, so at least that's proof it works :-)
The GNU C Library supports regular expressions.  It's open, and the RE code seems to be easily extractable.
The GNU C library regular expressions facility (regcomp(), regexec() and friends) is broken. Use libetre instead; the function signatures match the ones provided by glibc.

If you use Visual Studio you can use Visual C++ 2008 Feature Pack Release, this implements some of TR1, and includes regular expression parsing. Get it
You can use this program, Handle, to find which process has the lock on your file. It's a command-line tool, so I guess you use the output from that... I'm not sure about finding it programmatically.

If deleting the file can wait, you could specify it for deletion when your computer next starts up:


Start REGEDT32 (W2K) or REGEDIT (WXP) and navigate to:


W2K and WXP


W2K:EditAdd Value...Data Type: REG_MULTI_SZValue Name: PendingFileRenameOperationsOK
WXP:EditNewMulti-String Valueenter
PendingFileRenameOperations

In the Data area, enter "\??\" + filename to be deleted. LFNs may
be entered without being embedded in quotes. To delete C:\Long Directory Name\Long File Name.exe, enter the following data:



Then press OK.
The "destination file name" is a null (zero) string. It is entered
as follows:


W2K:EditBinaryselect Data Format: Hexclick at the end of the hex stringenter 0000 (four zeros)OK
WXP:Right-click the valuechoose "Modify Binary Data"click at the end of the hex stringenter 0000 (four zeros)OK

Close REGEDT32/REGEDIT and reboot to delete the file.


(Shamelessly stolen from some random forum, for posterity's sake.)

Killing other processes is not a healthy thing to do. If your scenario involves something like uninstallation, you could use the MoveFileEx API function to mark the file for deletion upon next reboot.

If it appears that you really need to delete a file in use by another process, I'd recommend re-considering the actual problem before considering any solutions.

If you want to do it programatically. I'm not sure... and I'd really recommend against it.
If you're just troubleshooting stuff on your own machine, SysInternals Process Explorer can help you

Run it, use the Find Handle command (I think it's either in the find or handle menu), and search for the name of your file. Once the handle(s) is found, you can forcibly close them.

You can then delete the file and so on.

Beware, doing this may cause the program which owns the handles to behave strangely, as you've just pulled the proverbial rug out from under it, but it works well when you are debugging your own errant code, or when visual studio / windows explorer is being crap and not releasing file handles even though you told them to close the file ages ago... sigh :-)
Oh, one big hack I employed years ago, is that Windows won't let you delete files, but it does let you move them.

Pseudo-sort-of-code:



When the applications restarted (note we didn't need to reboot the machine), they loaded the new mfc42.dll, and all was well. That, coupled with PendingFileOperations to delete the old one the next time the whole system restarted, worked pretty well.

The typical method is as follows. You've said you want to do this in C# so here goes...

If you don't know which process has the file locked, you'll need to examine each process's handle list, and query each handle to determine if it identifies the locked file. Doing this in C# will likely require P/Invoke or an intermediary C++/CLI to call the native APIs you'll need.
Once you've figured out which process(es) have the file locked, you'll need to safely inject a small native DLL into the process (you can also inject a managed DLL, but this is messier, as you then have to start or attach to the .NET runtime).
That bootstrap DLL then closes the handle using CloseHandle etc.
Essentially: the way to unlock a "locked" file is to inject a DLL into the offending process's address space and close it yourself. You can do this using native or managed code. No matter what, you're going to need a small amount of native code or at least P/Invoke into the same.
Helpful links:

Good luck!
Someone correct me if I'm wrong, but I don't think that AppSettings is typically meant to be used for these type of configuration settings.  Normally you would only put in settings that remain fairly static (database connection strings, file paths, etc.).  If you want to store customizable user settings, it would be better to create a separate preferences file, or ideally store those settings in a database. 
Could I ask why you're not saving the user's settings in a database?

Generally, I save application settings that are changed very infrequently in the appSettings section (the default email address error logs are sent to, the number of minutes after which you are automatically logged out, etc.) The scope of this really is at the application, not at the user, and is generally used for deployment settings.
one thing I would look at doing is caching the appsettings on a read, then flushing the settings from the cache on the write which should minimize the amount of actual load the server has to deal with for processing the appSettings.

Also, if possible, look at breaking the appSettings up into configSections so you can read write and cache related settings.

Having said all that, I would seriously consider looking at storing these values in a database as you seem to actually be storing user preferences, and not application settings.
I should probably clarify a few points.

This is not a web application, so connecting a database to the application might be overkill simply for storing configuration settings. This is a Windows Forms application.

According to the MSDN documention, the ConfigurationManager is for storing not just application level settings, but user settings as well. (Especially important if, for instance, the application is installed as a partial-trust application.)
Check out SQLite, it seems like a good option for this particular scenario.
I would not use config files for storing user data. Use a db.
since you're using a winforms app, if it's in .net 2.0 there's actually a user settings system (called Properties) that is designed for this purpose. This article on MSDN has a pretty good introduction into this

If you're still worried about performance then take a look at SQL Compact Edition which is similar to SQLite but is the Microsoft offering which I've found plays very nicely with winforms and there's even the ability to make it work with Linq

Dylan,
Don't use the application config file for this purpose, use a SQL DB (SQLite, MySQL, MSSQL, whatever) because you'll have to worry less about concurrency issues during reads and writes to the config file. 
You'll also have better flexibility in the type of data you want to store. The appSettings section is just a key/value list which you may outgrow as time passes and as the app matures. You could use custom config sections but then you're into a new problem area when it comes to the design.
The appSettings isn't really meant for what you are trying to do.

When your .NET application starts, it reads in the app.config file, and caches its contents in memory. For that reason, after you write to the app.config file, you'll have to somehow force the runtime to re-parse the app.config file so it can cache the settings again. This is unnecessary 

The best approach would be to use a database to store your configuration settings.

Barring the use of a database, you could easily setup an external XML configuration file. When your application starts, you could cache its contents in a NameValueCollection object or HashTable object. As you change/add settings, you would do it to that cached copy. When your application shuts down, or at an appropriate time interval, you can write the cache contents back out to file.
It might be worth checking out what some of the other guys are doing in this space and not necessarily in the C# arena either.
This is a library written in c#
SVN also has a binary diff algorithm and I know there's an implementation in python although I couldn't find it with a quick search. They might give you some ideas on where to improve your own algorithm
Sorry I couldn't be more help. I would definately keep looking at xdelta because I have used it a number of times to produce quality diffs on 600MB+ ISO files we have generated for distributing our products and it performs very well.
If this is for installation or distribution, have you considered using the Windows Installer SDK? It has the ability to patch binary files.


Yes they should, only leads to confusion otherwise.
I'd say yes.

First, it will be easier to find the actual code files by following down the namespaces (say, when somebody e-mails you a naked exception call stack). If you let your folders go out of sync with namespaces, finding files in big codebases becomes getting tiring.

Second, VS will generate new classes you create in folders with the same namespace of its parent folder structure. If you decide to swim against this, it will be just one more plumbing job to do daily when adding new files.

Of course, this goes without saying that one should be conservative about how deep xis folder/namespace hierarchy goes.
I think the standard, within .NET, is to try to do it when possible, but not to create unnecessarily deep structures just to adhere to it as a hard rule. None of my projects follow the namespace == structure rule 100% of the time, sometimes its just cleaner/better to break out from such rules.

In Java you don't have a choice. I'd call that a classic case of what works in theory vs what works in practice.
Also, note that if you use the built-in templates to add classes to a folder, it will by default be put in a namespace that reflects the folder hierarchy.

The classes will be easier to find and that alone should be reasons good enough.

The rules we follow are:


Project/assembly name is the same as the root namespace, except for the .dll ending
Only exception to the above rule is a project with a .Core ending, the .Core is stripped off
Folders equals namespaces
One type per file (class, struct, enum, delegate, etc.) makes it easy to find the right file


I found that if you append the last modified timestamp of the file onto the end of the URL the browser will request the files when it is modified. For example in PHP:



Some solutions I have seen involve adding a version number to the end of the file in the form of a query string.



You could use the SVN revision number to automate this for you by including the word LastChangedRevision in your html file after where v1 appears above. You must also setup your repository to do this.

I hope this further clarifies my answer?

Firefox also allows pressing CTRL + R to reload everything on a particular page.

In my opinion, it is better to make the version number part of the file itself.  e.g. myscript.1.2.3.js  You can set your webserver to cache this file forever, and just add a new js file when you have a new version.
is this a console app or a winforms app? If it's a .NET 1.1 console app this is, sadly, by design -- it's confirmed by a MSFT dev in the second blog post you referenced:


  BTW, on my 1.1 machine the example from MSDN does have the expected output; it's just that the second line doesn't show up until after you've attached a debugger (or not). In v2 we've flipped things around so that the UnhandledException event fires before the debugger attaches, which seems to be what most people expect.


Sounds like .NET 2.0 does this better (thank goodness), but honestly, I never had time to go back and check.
It's a WinForms app. The exceptions that are caught by Application.ThreadException work fine, and I don't get the ugly .NET exception box (OK to terminate, cancel to debug? who came up with that??).

I was getting some exceptions that weren't being caught by that and ended up going to the AppDomain.UnhandledException event that were causing problems. I think I've caught most of those exceptions and I am displaying them in our nice error box now.

So I'll just have to hope there are not some other circumstances that would cause exceptions to not be caught by the Application.ThreadException handler.
Oh, in WinForms you definitely should be able to get it to work. The only thing you have to watch out for is things happening on different threads.

I have an old CodeProject article here which should help:


AppDomain.UnhandledException is an event, not a global exception handler. This means, by the time it is raised, your application is already on its way down the drain, and there is nothing you can do about it, except for doing cleanup and error logging.

What happened behind the scenes is this: The framework detected the exception, walked up the call stack to the very top, found no handlers that would recover from the error, so was unable to determine if it was safe to continue execution. So, it started the shutdown sequence, and fired up this event as a courtesy to you so you can pay your respects to your already-doomed process. This happens when an exception is left unhandled in the main thread.

There is no single-point solution to this kind of error. You need to put a real exception handler (a catch block) upstream of all places where this error occurs and forward it to (for example) a global handler method/class that will determine if it is safe to simply report and continue, based on exception type and/or content.

Edit: It is possible to disable (=hack) the error-reporting mechanism built into Windows so the mandatory "crash and burn" dialog does not get displayed when your app goes down. However, this becomes effective for all the applications in the system, not just your own.
One method you can used to obtain this option is by placing a "CheckBox" object and changing its "Appearance" from "Normal" to "Button" this will give you the same functionality that I believe you are looking for.
Yes, I thought about that, but I soon figured out that another Domain-Specific-Language (DSL) would be a bit too much.

Essentially, they need to interact with my gamestate in possibly unpredictable ways. For example, a card could have a rule "When this cards enter play, all your undead minions gain +3 attack against flying enemies, except when the enemy is blessed". As trading card games are turn based, the GameState Manager will fire OnStageX events and let the cards modify other cards or the GameState in whatever way the card needs.

If I try to create a DSL, I have to implement a rather large feature set and possibly constantly update it, which shifts the maintenance work to another part without actually removing it.

That's why I wanted to stay with a "real" .NET language to essentially be able to just fire the event and let the card manipulate the gamestate in whatever way (within the limits of the code access security).

Oleg Shilo's C# Script solution (at The Code Project) really is a great introduction to providing script abilities in your application.

A different approach would be to consider a language that is specifically built for scripting, such as IronRuby, IronPython, or Lua.

IronPython and IronRuby are both available today.

For a guide to embedding IronPython read
How to embed IronPython script support in your existing app in 10 easy steps.

Lua is a scripting language commonly used in games. There is a Lua compiler for .NET, available from CodePlex -- http://www.codeplex.com/Nua

That codebase is a great read if you want to learn about building a compiler in .NET.

A different angle altogether is to try PowerShell. There are numerous examples of embedding PowerShell into an application -- here's a thorough project on the topic: 
Powershell Tunnel

You might be able to use IronRuby for that. 

Otherwise I'd suggest you have a directory where you place precompiled assemblies. Then you could have a reference in the DB to the assembly and class, and use reflection to load the proper assemblies at runtime.

If you really want to compile at run-time you could use the CodeDOM, then you could use reflection to load the dynamic assembly. MSDN article which might help.
You could use any of the DLR languages, which provide a way to really easily host your own scripting platform. However, you don't have to use a scripting language for this. You could use C# and compile it with the C# code provider. As long as you load it in its own AppDomain, you can load and unload it to your heart's content.
If you don't want to use the DLR you can use Boo (which has an interpreter) or you could consider the Script.NET (S#) project on CodePlex. With the Boo solution you can choose between compiled scripts or using the interpreter, and Boo makes a nice scripting language, has a flexible syntax and an extensible language via its open compiler architecture. Script.NET looks nice too, though, and you could easily extend that language as well as its an open source project and uses a very friendly Compiler Generator (Irony.net).
As far as I can tell Python, up through 2.5, only supports hexadecimal  octal literals.  I did find some discussions about adding binary to future versions but nothing definite.
I am pretty sure this is one of the things due to change in Python 3.0 with perhaps bin() to go with hex() and oct().

EDIT:
lbrandy's answer is correct in all cases.



Another way.

break would stop the foreach loop completely, continue would skip to the next DataRow
break will exit the loop completely, continue will just skip the current iteration.

For example:



The break will cause the loop to exit on the first iteration - DoSomeThingWith will never be executed. This here:



Will not execute DoSomeThingWith for i = 0, but the loop will continue and DoSomeThingWith will be executed for i = 1 to i = 9.

A really easy way to understand this is to place the word "loop" after each of the keywords.  The terms now make sense if they are just read like everyday phrases.

break loop - looping is broken and stops

continue loop - loop continues to execute with the next iteration
There are more than a few people who don't like break and continue. The latest complaint I saw about them was in JavaScript: The Good Parts by Douglas Crockford. But I find that sometimes using one of them really simplifies things, especially if your language doesn't include a do-while or do-until style of loop.

I tend to use break in loops that are searching a list for something. Once found, there's no point in continuing, so you might as well quit.

I use continue when doing something with most elements of a list, but still want to skip over a few.

The break statement also comes in handy when polling for a valid response from somebody or something. Instead of:



You could eliminate some duplication and use:



The do-until loop that I mentioned before is the more elegant solution for that particular problem:



No duplication, and no break needed either.
Ruby unfortunately is a bit different. 
PS: My memory is a bit hazy on this so apologies if I'm wrong

instead of break/continue, it has break/next, which behave the same in terms of loops

Loops (like everything else) are expressions, and "return" the last thing that they did. Most of the time, getting the return value from a loop is pointless, so everyone just does this



You can however do this



HOWEVER, a lot of ruby code 'emulates' a loop by using a block.
The canonical example is



As it is much more common for people to want to do things with the result of a block, this is where it gets messy.
break/next mean different things in the context of a block.

break will jump out of the code that called the block

next will skip the rest of the code in the block, and 'return' what you specify to the caller of the block. This doesn't make any sense without examples.



So yeah. Ruby is awesome, but it has some awful corner-cases. This is the second worst one I've seen in my years of using it :-)
I like MbUnit, er, Gallio.  Most importantly to me is having good tools support inside Visual Studio.  For that I use Resharper, which has an MbUnit test runner.  A lot of folks seem to like TestDriven.NET as their test runner as well.
I like TestDriven.NET (even though I use ReSharper) and I'm pretty happy with XUnit.net. It uses Facts instead of Tests which many people dislike but I like the difference in terminology. It's useful to think of a collection of automatically provable Facts about your software and see which ones you violate when you make a change.
Be aware that Visual Studio 2008 Professional (and above) now comes with integrated Unit Testing (it used to be available only with the Team System Editions) and may be suitable for your needs. 
There are so many it's crazy.  Crazy good, I guess.


For the conservative types (me), NUnit is still available and still more than capable.
For the Microsoft-types, MSTest is adequate, but slow and clunky compared to Nunit.  It also lacks code coverage without paying the big bucks for the pricey versions of Visual Studio.
There's also MbUnit.  It's like NUnit, but has nifty features like RowTest (run the same test with different parameters) and Rollback (put the database back like you found it after a test) 
And finally, xUnit.net is the trendy option with some attitude.
Oh, and TestDriven.NET will give you IDE integration for both Nunit and MBunit.


I'm sure they're all just fine.  I'd steer away from MSTest though, unless you just enjoy the convenience of having everything in one IDE out of the box.

Scott Hanselman has a podcast on this very topic.

xUnit.net looks like it provides a slightly different approach to N/MB/MS/Unit, which is interesting.

In my search for an rspec-like solution (because I LOVE the rspec), I also came across NSpec, which looks a bit wordy, but combined with the NSpec Extensions addon to use C#3 extension methods, it looks pretty nice.

We use NUnit and MBUnit here. We use TestDriven.NET to run the unit tests from within Visual Studio. We use the excellent, highly recommended RhinoMocks as a mock framework.
I used to use NUnit, but I switched to MbUnit since it has more features.  I love RowTest.  It lets you parametrize your tests.  NUnit does have a litter bit better tool support though.  I am using ReSharper to run MbUnit Tests.  I've had problems with TestDriven.NET running my SetUp methods for MbUnit.
No, you were not dreaming.  Python has a pretty excellent list comprehension system that lets you manipulate lists pretty elegantly, and depending on exactly what you want to accomplish, this can be done a couple of ways.  In essence, what you're doing is saying "For item in list if criteria.matches", and from that you can just iterate through the results or dump the results into a new list.

I'm going to crib an example from Dive Into Python here, because it's pretty elegant and they're smarter than I am.  Here they're getting a list of files in a directory, then filtering the list for all files that match a regular expression criteria.





You could do this without regular expressions, for your example, for anything where your expression at the end returns true for a match.  There are other options like using the filter() function, but if I were going to choose, I'd go with this.

Eric Sipple

I think:



Is what you are thinking of.  When trying to see if a certain key exists within a dictionary in python (python's version of a hash table) there are two ways to check.  First is the has_key() method attached to the dictionary and second is the example given above.  It will return a boolean value.

That should answer your question.

And now a little off topic to tie this in to the list comprehension answer previously given (for a bit more clarity).  List Comprehensions construct a list from a basic for loop with modifiers.  As an example (to clarify slightly), a way to use the in dict language construct in a _list comprehension_:

Say you have a two dimensional dictionary foo and you only want the second dimension dictionaries which contain the key bar.  A relatively straightforward way to do so would be to use a list comprehension with a conditional as follows:



Note the if bar in value at the end of the statement, this is a modifying clause which tells the list comprehension to only keep those key-value pairs which meet the conditional.  In this case baz is a new dictionary which contains only the dictionaries from foo which contain bar (Hopefully I didn't miss anything in that code example... you may have to take a look at the list comprehension documentation found in docs.python.org tutorials and at secnetix.de, both sites are good references if you have questions in the future.).
Are you looking to get a list of objects that have a certain attribute? If so, a list comprehension is the right way to do this.


What I was thinking of can be achieved using list comprehensions, but I thought that there was a function that did this in a slightly neater way.

i.e. 'bar' is a list of objects, all of which have the attribute 'id'

The mythical functional way:



The list comprehension way:



In retrospect the list comprehension way is pretty neat anyway.
Within your overridden ProcessCmdKey how are you determining which key has been pressed?
The value of keyData (the second parameter) will change dependant on the key pressed and any modifier keys, so, for example, pressing the left arrow will return code 37, shift-left will return 65573, ctrl-left 131109 and alt-left 262181.
You can extract the modifiers and the key pressed by ANDing with appropriate enum values:protected override bool ProcessCmdKey(ref Message msg, Keys keyData)
{
    bool shiftPressed = (keyData  Keys.Shift) != 0;
    Keys unmodifiedKey = (keyData  Keys.KeyCode);

    // rest of code goes here
}

